# ยง 1025.23   Motions.

(a) *Presentation and disposition.* During the time a matter in adjudication is before the Presiding Officer, all motions, whether oral or written, except those filed under ยง 1025.42(e), shall be addressed to the Presiding Officer, who shall rule upon them promptly, after affording an opportunity for response.


(b) *Written motions.* All written motions shall state with particularity the order, ruling, or action desired and the reasons why the action should be granted. Memoranda, affidavits, or other documents supporting a motion shall be served and filed with the motion. All motions shall contain a proposed order setting forth the relief sought. All written motions shall be filed with the Secretary and served upon all parties, and all motions addressed to the Commission shall be in writing.


(c) *Opposition to motions.* Within ten (10) days after service of any written motion or petition or within such longer or shorter time as may be designated by these Rules or by the Presiding Officer or the Commission, any party who opposes the granting of the requested order, ruling or action may file a written response to the motion. Failure to respond to a written motion may, in the discretion of the Presiding Officer, be considered as consent to the granting of the relief sought in the motion. Unless otherwise permitted by the Presiding Officer or the Commission, there shall be no reply to the response expressing opposition to the motion.


(d) *Rulings on motions for dismissal.* When a motion to dismiss a complaint or a motion for other relief is granted, with the result that the proceedings before the Presiding Officer are terminated, the Presiding Officer shall issue an Initial Decision and Order in accordance with the provisions of ยง 1025.51. If such a motion is granted as to all issues alleged in the complaint in regard to some, but not all, respondents or is granted as to any part of the allegations in regard to any or all respondents, the Presiding Officer shall enter an order on the record and consider the remaining issues in the Initial Decision. The Presiding Officer may elect to defer ruling on a motion to dismiss until the close of the case.




