# § 414.37   Modification, suspension, or revocation of a safety element approval.

(a) *The safety element approval holder.* The safety element approval holder may submit an application to the FAA to modify the terms and conditions of the holder's safety element approval. The application must meet all the applicable requirements under this part. The FAA will review and make a determination on the application using the same procedures under this part applicable to an initial safety element approval application. If the FAA denies the request to modify a safety element approval, the holder may correct any deficiency the FAA identified and request reconsideration. The holder also has the right to appeal a denial as set forth in subpart D of this part.


(b) *The FAA.* If the FAA finds it is in the interest of public health and safety, safety of property, or if the safety element approval holder fails to comply with any applicable requirements of this part, any terms and conditions of the safety element approval, or any other applicable requirement, the FAA may—


(1) Modify the terms and conditions of the safety element approval; or


(2) Suspend or revoke the safety element approval.


(c) *Effective date.* Unless otherwise stated by the FAA, any modification, suspension, or revocation of a safety element approval under paragraph (b)—


(1) Takes effect immediately; and


(2) Continues in effect during any reconsideration or appeal of such action under this part.


(d) *Notification and right to appeal.* If the FAA determines it is necessary to modify, suspend, or revoke a safety element approval, we will notify the safety element approval holder in writing. If the holder disagrees with the FAA's determination, the holder may correct any deficiency the FAA identified and request a reconsideration of the determination. The applicant also has the right to appeal the determination as set forth in subpart D of this part.




