# § 218.94   Mitigation requirements.

When conducting the activities identified in § 218.90(c), the mitigation measures contained in any LOA issued under §§ 216.106 of this section and 218.96 must be implemented. These mitigation measures include, but are not limited to:


(a) *Procedural mitigation.* Procedural mitigation is mitigation that the Navy must implement whenever and wherever an applicable training or testing activity takes place within the MITT Study Area for each applicable activity category or stressor category and includes acoustic stressors (*i.e.,* active sonar and other transducers, weapons firing noise), explosive stressors (*i.e.,* sonobuoys, torpedoes, medium-caliber and large-caliber projectiles, missiles and rockets, bombs, sinking exercises, mines, anti-swimmer grenades), and physical disturbance and strike stressors *(i.e.,* vessel movement; towed in-water devices; small-, medium-, and large-caliber non-explosive practice munitions; non-explosive missiles and rockets; and non-explosive bombs and mine shapes).


(1) *Environmental awareness and education.* Appropriate Navy personnel (including civilian personnel) involved in mitigation and training or testing reporting under the specified activities will complete one or more modules of the U.S. Navy Afloat Environmental Compliance Training Series, as identified in their career path training plan. Modules include: Introduction to the U.S. Navy Afloat Environmental Compliance Training Series, Marine Species Awareness Training; U.S. Navy Protective Measures Assessment Protocol; and U.S. Navy Sonar Positional Reporting System and Marine Mammal Incident Reporting.


(2) *Active sonar.* Active sonar includes low-frequency active sonar, mid-frequency active sonar, and high-frequency active sonar. For vessel-based activities, mitigation applies only to sources that are positively controlled and deployed from manned surface vessels (*e.g.,* sonar sources towed from manned surface platforms). For aircraft-based activities, mitigation applies only to sources that are positively controlled and deployed from manned aircraft that do not operate at high altitudes (*e.g.,* rotary-wing aircraft). Mitigation does not apply to active sonar sources deployed from unmanned aircraft or aircraft operating at high altitudes (*e.g.,* maritime patrol aircraft).


(i) *Number of Lookouts and observation platform*—(A) *Hull-mounted sources.* One Lookout must be positioned for platforms with space or manning restrictions while underway (at the forward part of a small boat or ship) and platforms using active sonar while moored or at anchor (including pierside); and two Lookouts must be positioned for platforms without space or manning restrictions while underway (at the forward part of the ship).


(B) *Sources that are not hull-mounted sources.* One Lookout must be positioned on the ship or aircraft conducting the activity.


(ii) *Mitigation zone and requirements.* The mitigation zones must be the zones as described in paragraphs (a)(2)(ii)(B) and (C) of this section.


(A) Prior to the initial start of the activity (*e.g.,* when maneuvering on station), Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must relocate or delay the start of active sonar transmission.


(B) During the activity for low-frequency active sonar at or above 200 dB and hull-mounted mid-frequency active sonar, Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals and power down active sonar transmission by 6 dB if marine mammals are observed within 1,000 yd of the sonar source; power down by an additional 4 dB (for a total of 10 dB) if marine mammals are observed within 500 yd of the sonar source; and cease transmission if marine mammals are observed within 200 yd of the sonar source.


(C) During the activity for low-frequency active sonar below 200 dB, mid-frequency active sonar sources that are not hull mounted, and high-frequency active sonar, Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals and cease active sonar transmission if marine mammals are observed within 200 yd of the sonar source.


(D) Commencement/recommencement conditions after a marine mammal sighting before or during the activity. Navy personnel must allow a sighted marine mammal to leave the mitigation zone prior to the initial start of the activity (by delaying the start) or during the activity (by not recommencing or powering up active sonar transmission) until one of the following conditions has been met: The animal is observed exiting the mitigation zone; the animal is thought to have exited the mitigation zone based on a determination of its course, speed, and movement relative to the sonar source; the mitigation zone has been clear from any additional sightings for 10 minutes (min) for aircraft-deployed sonar sources or 30 min for vessel-deployed sonar sources; for mobile activities, the active sonar source has transited a distance equal to double that of the mitigation zone size beyond the location of the last sighting; or for activities using hull-mounted sonar where a dolphin(s) is observed in the mitigation zone, the Lookout concludes that the dolphin(s) is deliberately closing in on the ship to ride the ship's bow wave, and is therefore out of the main transmission axis of the sonar (and there are no other marine mammal sightings within the mitigation zone).


(3) *Weapons firing noise.* Weapons firing noise associated with large-caliber gunnery activities.


(i) *Number of Lookouts and observation platform.* One Lookout must be positioned on the ship conducting the firing. Depending on the activity, the Lookout could be the same as the one provided for under “Explosive medium-caliber and large-caliber projectiles” or under “Small-, medium-, and large-caliber non-explosive practice munitions” in paragraphs (a)(6)(i) and (a)(15)(i) of this section.


(ii) *Mitigation* z*one and requirements.* The mitigation zone must be thirty degrees on either side of the firing line out to 70 yd from the muzzle of the weapon being fired.


(A) Prior to the initial start of the activity, Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must relocate or delay the start of weapons firing.


(B) During the activity, Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must cease weapons firing.


(C) Commencement/recommencement conditions after a marine mammal sighting before or during the activity. Navy personnel must allow a sighted marine mammal to leave the mitigation zone prior to the initial start of the activity (by delaying the start) or during the activity (by not recommencing weapons firing) until one of the following conditions has been met: The animal is observed exiting the mitigation zone; the animal is thought to have exited the mitigation zone based on a determination of its course, speed, and movement relative to the firing ship; the mitigation zone has been clear from any additional sightings for 30 min; or for mobile activities, the firing ship has transited a distance equal to double that of the mitigation zone size beyond the location of the last sighting.


(4) *Explosive sonobuoys*—(i) *Number of Lookouts and observation platform.* One Lookout must be positioned in an aircraft or on a small boat. If additional platforms are participating in the activity, Navy personnel positioned on those assets (*e.g.,* safety observers, evaluators) must support observing the mitigation zone for marine mammals and other applicable biological resources while performing their regular duties.


(ii) *Mitigation zone and requirements.* (A) The mitigation zone must be 600 yd around an explosive sonobuoy.


(B) Prior to the initial start of the activity (*e.g.,* during deployment of a sonobuoy pattern, which typically lasts 20-30 min), Navy personnel must conduct passive acoustic monitoring for marine mammals and use information from detections to assist visual observations. Navy personnel also must visually observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must relocate or delay the start of sonobuoy or source/receiver pair detonations.


(C) During the activity, Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must cease sonobuoy or source/receiver pair detonations.


(D) Commencement/recommencement conditions after a marine mammal sighting before or during the activity. Navy personnel must allow a sighted marine mammal to leave the mitigation zone prior to the initial start of the activity (by delaying the start) or during the activity (by not recommencing detonations) until one of the following conditions has been met: The animal is observed exiting the mitigation zone; the animal is thought to have exited the mitigation zone based on a determination of its course, speed, and movement relative to the sonobuoy; or the mitigation zone has been clear from any additional sightings for 10 min when the activity involves aircraft that have fuel constraints (*e.g.,* helicopter), or 30 min when the activity involves aircraft that are not typically fuel constrained.


(E) After completion of the activity (*e.g.,* prior to maneuvering off station), when practical (*e.g.,* when platforms are not constrained by fuel restrictions or mission-essential follow-on commitments), Navy personnel must observe for marine mammals in the vicinity of where detonations occurred; if any injured or dead marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must follow established incident reporting procedures. If additional platforms are supporting this activity (*e.g.,* providing range clearance), Navy personnel on these assets must assist in the visual observation of the area where detonations occurred.


(5) *Explosive torpedoes*—(i) *Number of Lookouts and observation platform.* One Lookout must be positioned in an aircraft. If additional platforms are participating in the activity, Navy personnel positioned on those assets *(e.g.,* safety observers, evaluators) must support observing the mitigation zone for marine mammals and other applicable biological resources while performing their regular duties.


(ii) *Mitigation zone and requirements.* (A) The mitigation zone must be 2,100 yd around the intended impact location.


(B) Prior to the initial start of the activity (*e.g.,* during deployment of the target), Navy personnel must conduct passive acoustic monitoring for marine mammals and use the information from detections to assist visual observations. Navy personnel also must visually observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must relocate or delay the start of firing.


(C) During the activity, Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals. If marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must cease firing.


(D) Commencement/recommencement conditions after a marine mammal sighting before or during the activity. Navy personnel must allow a sighted marine mammal to leave the mitigation zone prior to the initial start of the activity (by delaying the start) or during the activity (by not recommencing firing) until one of the following conditions has been met: The animal is observed exiting the mitigation zone; the animal is thought to have exited the mitigation zone based on a determination of its course, speed, and movement relative to the intended impact location; or the mitigation zone has been clear from any additional sightings for 10 min when the activity involves aircraft that have fuel constraints, or 30 min when the activity involves aircraft that are not typically fuel constrained.


(E) After completion of the activity (*e.g.,* prior to maneuvering off station), Navy personnel must when practical *(e.g.,* when platforms are not constrained by fuel restrictions or mission-essential follow-on commitments), observe for marine mammals in the vicinity of where detonations occurred; if any injured or dead marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must follow established incident reporting procedures. If additional platforms are supporting this activity (*e.g.,* providing range clearance), Navy personnel on these assets must assist in the visual observation of the area where detonations occurred.


(6) *Explosive medium-caliber and large-caliber projectiles.* Gunnery activities using explosive medium-caliber and large-caliber projectiles. Mitigation applies to activities using a surface target.


(i) *Number of Lookouts and observation platform.* One Lookout must be on the vessel or aircraft conducting the activity. For activities using explosive large-caliber projectiles, depending on the activity, the Lookout could be the same as the one described in “Weapons firing noise” in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section. If additional platforms are participating in the activity, Navy personnel positioned on those assets (*e.g.,* safety observers, evaluators) must support observing the mitigation zone for marine mammals and other applicable biological resources while performing their regular duties.


(ii) *Mitigation zone and requirements.* (A) The mitigation zone must be 200 yd around the intended impact location for air-to-surface activities using explosive medium-caliber projectiles.


(B) The mitigation zone must be 600 yd around the intended impact location for surface-to-surface activities using explosive medium-caliber projectiles.


(C) The mitigation zone must be 1,000 yd around the intended impact location for surface-to-surface activities using explosive large-caliber projectiles.


(D) Prior to the initial start of the activity (*e.g.,* when maneuvering on station), Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must relocate or delay the start of firing.


(E) During the activity, Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must cease firing.


(F) Commencement/recommencement conditions after a marine mammal sighting before or during the activity. Navy personnel must allow a sighted marine mammal to leave the mitigation zone prior to the initial start of the activity (by delaying the start) or during the activity (by not recommencing firing) until one of the following conditions has been met: The animal is observed exiting the mitigation zone; the animal is thought to have exited the mitigation zone based on a determination of its course, speed, and movement relative to the intended impact location; the mitigation zone has been clear from any additional sightings for 10 min for aircraft-based firing or 30 min for vessel-based firing; or for activities using mobile targets, the intended impact location has transited a distance equal to double that of the mitigation zone size beyond the location of the last sighting.


(G) After completion of the activity (*e.g.,* prior to maneuvering off station), Navy personnel must, when practical (*e.g.,* when platforms are not constrained by fuel restrictions or mission-essential follow-on commitments), observe for marine mammals in the vicinity of where detonations occurred; if any injured or dead marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must follow established incident reporting procedures. If additional platforms are supporting this activity (*e.g.,* providing range clearance), Navy personnel on these assets must assist in the visual observation of the area where detonations occurred.


(7) *Explosive missiles and rockets.* Aircraft-deployed explosive missiles and rockets. Mitigation applies to activities using a surface target.


(i) *Number of Lookouts and observation platform.* One Lookout must be positioned in an aircraft. If additional platforms are participating in the activity, Navy personnel positioned on those assets (*e.g.,* safety observers, evaluators) must support observing the mitigation zone for marine mammals and other applicable biological resources while performing their regular duties.


(ii) *Mitigation zone and requirements.* (A) The mitigation zone must be 900 yd around the intended impact location for missiles or rockets with 0.6-20 lb net explosive weight.


(B) 2,000 yd around the intended impact location for missiles with 21-500 lb net explosive weight.


(C) Prior to the initial start of the activity (*e.g.,* during a fly-over of the mitigation zone), Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must relocate or delay the start of firing.


(D) During the activity, Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must cease firing.


(E) Commencement/recommencement conditions after a marine mammal sighting before or during the activity. Navy personnel must allow a sighted marine mammal to leave the mitigation zone prior to the initial start of the activity (by delaying the start) or during the activity (by not recommencing firing) until one of the following conditions has been met: The animal is observed exiting the mitigation zone; the animal is thought to have exited the mitigation zone based on a determination of its course, speed, and movement relative to the intended impact location; or the mitigation zone has been clear from any additional sightings for 10 min when the activity involves aircraft that have fuel constraints, or 30 min when the activity involves aircraft that are not typically fuel constrained.


(F) After completion of the activity (*e.g.,* prior to maneuvering off station), Navy personnel must, when practical (*e.g.,* when platforms are not constrained by fuel restrictions or mission-essential follow-on commitments), observe for marine mammals in the vicinity of where detonations occurred; if any injured or dead marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must follow established incident reporting procedures. If additional platforms are supporting this activity (*e.g.,* providing range clearance), Navy personnel on these assets will assist in the visual observation of the area where detonations occurred.


(8) *Explosive bombs*—(i) *Number of Lookouts and observation platform.* One Lookout must be positioned in an aircraft conducting the activity. If additional platforms are participating in the activity, Navy personnel positioned on those assets (*e.g.,* safety observers, evaluators) must support observing the mitigation zone for marine mammals and other applicable biological resources while performing their regular duties.


(ii) *Mitigation zone and requirements.* (A) The mitigation zone must be 2,500 yd around the intended target.


(B) Prior to the initial start of the activity (*e.g.,* when arriving on station), Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must relocate or delay the start of bomb deployment.


(C) During the activity (*e.g.,* during target approach), Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must cease bomb deployment.


(D) Commencement/recommencement conditions after a marine mammal sighting before or during the activity. Navy personnel must allow a sighted marine mammal to leave the mitigation zone prior to the initial start of the activity (by delaying the start) or during the activity (by not recommencing bomb deployment) until one of the following conditions has been met: The animal is observed exiting the mitigation zone; the animal is thought to have exited the mitigation zone based on a determination of its course, speed, and movement relative to the intended target; the mitigation zone has been clear from any additional sightings for 10 min; or for activities using mobile targets, the intended target has transited a distance equal to double that of the mitigation zone size beyond the location of the last sighting.


(E) After completion of the activity (*e.g.,* prior to maneuvering off station), Navy personnel must, when practical (*e.g.,* when platforms are not constrained by fuel restrictions or mission-essential follow-on commitments), observe for marine mammals in the vicinity of where detonations occurred; if any injured or dead marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must follow established incident reporting procedures. If additional platforms are supporting this activity (*e.g.,* providing range clearance), Navy personnel on these assets must assist in the visual observation of the area where detonations occurred.


(9) *Sinking exercises*—(i) *Number of Lookouts and observation platform.* Two Lookouts (one must be positioned in an aircraft and one must be positioned on a vessel). If additional platforms are participating in the activity, Navy personnel positioned on those assets (*e.g.,* safety observers, evaluators) must support observing the mitigation zone for marine mammals and other applicable biological resources while performing their regular duties.


(ii) *Mitigation zone and requirements.* (A) The mitigation zone must be 2.5 nmi around the target ship hulk.


(B) Prior to the initial start of the activity (90 min prior to the first firing), Navy personnel must conduct aerial observations of the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must delay the start of firing.


(C) During the activity, Navy personnel must conduct passive acoustic monitoring for marine mammals and use the information from detections to assist visual observations. Navy personnel must visually observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals from the vessel; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must cease firing. Immediately after any planned or unplanned breaks in weapons firing of longer than two hours, Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals from the aircraft and vessel; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must delay recommencement of firing.


(D) Commencement/recommencement conditions after a marine mammal sighting before or during the activity. Navy personnel must allow a sighted marine mammal to leave the mitigation zone prior to the initial start of the activity (by delaying the start) or during the activity (by not recommencing firing) until one of the following conditions has been met: The animal is observed exiting the mitigation zone; the animal is thought to have exited the mitigation zone based on a determination of its course, speed, and movement relative to the target ship hulk; or the mitigation zone has been clear from any additional sightings for 30 min.


(E) After completion of the activity (for two hours after sinking the vessel or until sunset, whichever comes first), Navy personnel must observe for marine mammals in the vicinity of where detonations occurred; if any injured or dead marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must follow established incident reporting procedures. If additional platforms are supporting this activity (*e.g.,* providing range clearance), Navy personnel on these assets will assist in the visual observation of the area where detonations occurred.


(10) *Explosive mine countermeasure and neutralization activities*—(i) *Number of Lookouts and observation platform.* (A) One Lookout must be positioned on a vessel or in an aircraft.


(B) If additional platforms are participating in the activity, Navy personnel positioned on those assets (*e.g.,* safety observers, evaluators) must support observing the mitigation zone for marine mammals and other applicable biological resources while performing their regular duties.


(ii) *Mitigation zone and requirements.* (A) The mitigation zone must be 600 yd around the detonation site.


(B) Prior to the initial start of the activity (*e.g.,* when maneuvering on station; typically 10 min when the activity involves aircraft that have fuel constraints, or 30 min when the activity involves aircraft that are not typically fuel constrained), Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must relocate or delay the start of detonations.


(C) During the activity, Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must cease detonations.


(D) Commencement/recommencement conditions after a marine mammal sighting before or during the activity. Navy personnel must allow a sighted marine mammal to leave the mitigation zone prior to the initial start of the activity (by delaying the start) or during the activity (by not recommencing detonations) until one of the following conditions has been met: The animal is observed exiting the mitigation zone; the animal is thought to have exited the mitigation zone based on a determination of its course, speed, and movement relative to detonation site; or the mitigation zone has been clear from any additional sightings for 10 min when the activity involves aircraft that have fuel constraints, or 30 min when the activity involves aircraft that are not typically fuel constrained.


(E) [Reserved]


(F) After completion of the activity (typically 10 min when the activity involves aircraft that have fuel constraints, or 30 min when the activity involves aircraft that are not typically fuel constrained), Navy personnel must observe for marine mammals in the vicinity of where detonations occurred; if any injured or dead marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must follow established incident reporting procedures. If additional platforms are supporting this activity (*e.g.,* providing range clearance), Navy personnel on these assets must assist in the visual observation of the area where detonations occurred.


(11) *Explosive mine neutralization activities involving Navy divers*—(i) *Number of Lookouts and observation platform.* (A) Two Lookouts (two small boats with one Lookout each, or one Lookout must be on a small boat and one must be in a rotary-wing aircraft) when implementing the smaller mitigation zone.


(B) Four Lookouts (two small boats with two Lookouts each), and a pilot or member of an aircrew which must serve as an additional Lookout if aircraft are used during the activity, must be used when implementing the larger mitigation zone.


(C) All divers placing the charges on mines will support the Lookouts while performing their regular duties and will report applicable sightings to their supporting small boat or Range Safety Officer.


(D) If additional platforms are participating in the activity, Navy personnel positioned on those assets (*e.g.,* safety observers, evaluators) must support observing the mitigation zone for marine mammals and other applicable biological resources while performing their regular duties.


(ii) *Mitigation zone and requirements.* (A) For Lookouts on small boats or aircraft, the mitigation zone must be 500 yd around the detonation site under positive control.


(B) For Lookouts on small boats or aircraft, the mitigation zone must be 1,000 yd around the detonation site during all activities using time-delay fuses.


(C) For divers, the mitigation zone must be the underwater detonation location, which is defined as the sea space within the divers' range of visibility but no further than the mitigation zone specified for Lookouts on small boats or aircraft (500 yd or 1,000 yd depending on the charge type).


(D) Prior to the initial start of the activity (when maneuvering on station for activities under positive control; 30 min for activities using time-delay firing devices), Navy Lookouts on small boats or aircraft, must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must relocate or delay the start of detonations or fuse initiation.


(E) During the activity, Navy Lookouts on small boats or aircraft, must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must cease detonations or fuse initiation. While performing their normal duties during the activity, divers must observe the underwater detonation location for marine mammals. Divers must notify their supporting small boat or Range Safety Officer of marine mammal sightings at the underwater detonation location; if observed, the Navy must cease detonations or fuse initiation. To the maximum extent practicable depending on mission requirements, safety, and environmental conditions, Navy personnel must position boats near the mid-point of the mitigation zone radius (but outside of the detonation plume and human safety zone), must position themselves on opposite sides of the detonation location (when two boats are used), and must travel in a circular pattern around the detonation location with one Lookout observing inward toward the detonation site and the other observing outward toward the perimeter of the mitigation zone. If used, Navy aircraft must travel in a circular pattern around the detonation location to the maximum extent practicable. Navy personnel must not set time-delay firing devices to exceed 10 min.


(F) Commencement/recommencement conditions after a marine mammal sighting before or during the activity. Navy personnel must allow a sighted marine mammal to leave the underwater detonation location or mitigation zone (as applicable) prior to the initial start of the activity (by delaying the start) or during the activity (by not recommencing detonations or fuse initiation) until one of the following conditions has been met: The animal is observed exiting the 500 yd or 1,000 yd mitigation zone; the animal is thought to have exited the 500 yd or 1,000 yd mitigation zone based on a determination of its course, speed, and movement relative to the detonation site; or the 500 yd or 1,000 yd mitigation zones (for Lookouts on small boats or aircraft) and the underwater detonation location (for divers) has been clear from any additional sightings for 10 min during activities under positive control with aircraft that have fuel constraints, or 30 min during activities under positive control with aircraft that are not typically fuel constrained and during activities using time-delay firing devices.


(G) After completion of an activity, the Navy must observe for marine mammals for 30 min. Navy personnel must observe for marine mammals in the vicinity of where detonations occurred; if any injured or dead marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must follow established incident reporting procedures. If additional platforms are supporting this activity (*e.g.,* providing range clearance), Navy personnel on these assets must assist in the visual observation of the area where detonations occurred.


(12) *Maritime security operations—anti-swimmer grenades*—(i) *Number of Lookouts and observation platform.* One Lookout must be positioned on the small boat conducting the activity. If additional platforms are participating in the activity, Navy personnel positioned on those assets (*e.g.,* safety observers, evaluators) must support observing the mitigation zone for marine mammals and other applicable biological resources while performing their regular duties.


(ii) *Mitigation zone and requirements.* (A) The mitigation zone must be 200 yd around the intended detonation location.


(B) Prior to the initial start of the activity (*e.g.,* when maneuvering on station), Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must relocate or delay the start of detonations.


(C) During the activity, Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must cease detonations.


(D) Commencement/recommencement conditions after a marine mammal sighting before or during the activity. Navy personnel must allow a sighted marine mammal to leave the mitigation zone prior to the initial start of the activity (by delaying the start) or during the activity (by not recommencing detonations) until one of the following conditions has been met: The animal is observed exiting the mitigation zone; the animal is thought to have exited the mitigation zone based on a determination of its course, speed, and movement relative to the intended detonation location; the mitigation zone has been clear from any additional sightings for 30 min; or the intended detonation location has transited a distance equal to double that of the mitigation zone size beyond the location of the last sighting.


(E) After completion of the activity (*e.g.,* prior to maneuvering off station), Navy personnel must, when practical (*e.g.,* when platforms are not constrained by fuel restrictions or mission-essential follow-on commitments), observe for marine mammals in the vicinity of where detonations occurred; if any injured or dead marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must follow established incident reporting procedures. If additional platforms are supporting this activity (*e.g.,* providing range clearance), Navy personnel on these assets will assist in the visual observation of the area where detonations occurred.


(13) *Vessel movement.* The mitigation will not be applied if: The vessel's safety is threatened; the vessel is restricted in its ability to maneuver (*e.g.,* during launching and recovery of aircraft or landing craft, during towing activities, when mooring); the vessel is submerged or operated autonomously; or if impracticable based on mission requirements (*e.g.,* during Amphibious Assault and Amphibious Raid exercises).


(i) *Number of Lookouts and observation platform.* One Lookout must be on the vessel that is underway.


(ii) *Mitigation zone and requirements.* (A) The mitigation zone must be 500 yd around whales.


(B) The mitigation zone must be 200 yd around all other marine mammals (except bow-riding dolphins).


(C) During the activity. When underway Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must maneuver to maintain distance.


(iii) *Reporting.* If a marine mammal vessel strike occurs, Navy personnel must follow the established incident reporting procedures.


(14) *Towed in-water devices.* Mitigation applies to devices that are towed from a manned surface platform or manned aircraft. The mitigation will not be applied if the safety of the towing platform or in-water device is threatened.


(i) *Number of Lookouts and observation platform.* One Lookout must be positioned on a manned towing platform.


(ii) *Mitigation zone and requirements.* (A) The mitigation zone must be 250 yd around marine mammals.


(B) During the activity (*i.e.,* when towing an in-water device), Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must maneuver to maintain distance.


(15) *Small-, medium-, and large-caliber non-explosive practice munitions.* Mitigation applies to activities using a surface target.


(i) *Number of Lookouts and observation platform.* One Lookout must be positioned on the platform conducting the activity. Depending on the activity, the Lookout could be the same as the one described for “Weapons firing noise” in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section.


(ii) *Mitigation zone and requirements.* (A) The mitigation zone must be 200 yd around the intended impact location.


(B) Prior to the initial start of the activity (*e.g.,* when maneuvering on station), Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must relocate or delay the start of firing.


(C) During the activity, Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must cease firing.


(D) Commencement/recommencement conditions after a marine mammal sighting before or during the activity. Navy personnel must allow a sighted marine mammal to leave the mitigation zone prior to the initial start of the activity (by delaying the start) or during the activity (by not recommencing firing) until one of the following conditions has been met: The animal is observed exiting the mitigation zone; the animal is thought to have exited the mitigation zone based on a determination of its course, speed, and movement relative to the intended impact location; the mitigation zone has been clear from any additional sightings for 10 min for aircraft-based firing or 30 min for vessel-based firing; or for activities using a mobile target, the intended impact location has transited a distance equal to double that of the mitigation zone size beyond the location of the last sighting.


(16) *Non-explosive missiles and rockets.* Aircraft-deployed non-explosive missiles and rockets. Mitigation applies to activities using a surface target.


(i) *Number of Lookouts and observation platform.* One Lookout must be positioned in an aircraft.


(ii) *Mitigation zone and requirements.* (A) The mitigation zone must be 900 yd around the intended impact location.


(B) Prior to the initial start of the activity (*e.g.,* during a fly-over of the mitigation zone), Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must relocate or delay the start of firing.


(C) During the activity, Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must cease firing.


(D) Commencement/recommencement conditions after a marine mammal sighting prior to or during the activity. Navy personnel must allow a sighted marine mammal to leave the mitigation zone prior to the initial start of the activity (by delaying the start) or during the activity (by not recommencing firing) until one of the following conditions has been met: The animal is observed exiting the mitigation zone; the animal is thought to have exited the mitigation zone based on a determination of its course, speed, and movement relative to the intended impact location; or the mitigation zone has been clear from any additional sightings for 10 min when the activity involves aircraft that have fuel constraints, or 30 min when the activity involves aircraft that are not typically fuel constrained.


(17) *Non-explosive bombs and mine shapes.* Non-explosive bombs and non-explosive mine shapes during mine laying activities.


(i) *Number of Lookouts and observation platform.* One Lookout must be positioned in an aircraft.


(ii) *Mitigation zone and requirements.* (A) The mitigation zone must be 1,000 yd around the intended target.


(B) Prior to the initial start of the activity (*e.g.,* when arriving on station), Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals; if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must relocate or delay the start of bomb deployment or mine laying.


(C) During the activity (*e.g.,* during approach of the target or intended minefield location), Navy personnel must observe the mitigation zone for marine mammals and, if marine mammals are observed, Navy personnel must cease bomb deployment or mine laying.


(D) Commencement/recommencement conditions after a marine mammal sighting prior to or during the activity. Navy personnel must allow a sighted marine mammal to leave the mitigation zone prior to the initial start of the activity (by delaying the start) or during the activity (by not recommencing bomb deployment or mine laying) until one of the following conditions has been met: The animal is observed exiting the mitigation zone; the animal is thought to have exited the mitigation zone based on a determination of its course, speed, and movement relative to the intended target or minefield location; the mitigation zone has been clear from any additional sightings for 10 min; or for activities using mobile targets, the intended target has transited a distance equal to double that of the mitigation zone size beyond the location of the last sighting.


(b) *Mitigation areas.* In addition to procedural mitigation, Navy personnel must implement mitigation measures within mitigation areas to avoid or reduce potential impacts on marine mammals.


(1) *Mitigation areas for marine mammals off Saipan in MITT Study Area for sonar, explosives, and vessel strikes*—(i) *Mitigation area requirements*—(A) *Marpi Reef and Chalan Kanoa Reef Geographic Mitigation Areas.* (*1*) Navy personnel will conduct a maximum combined total of 20 hours annually from December 1 through April 30 of surface ship hull-mounted MF1 mid-frequency active sonar during training and testing within the Marpi Reef and Chalan Kanoa Reef Geographic Mitigation Areas.


(*2*) Navy personnel will not use in-water explosives.


(*3*) Navy personnel must report the total hours of all active sonar use (all bins, by bin) from December 1 through April 30 in these geographic mitigation areas in the annual training and testing exercise report submitted to NMFS.


(*4*) Should national security present a requirement to conduct training or testing prohibited by the mitigation requirements in this paragraph (b)(1)(i)(A), Navy personnel must obtain permission from the appropriate designated Command authority prior to commencement of the activity. Navy personnel must provide NMFS with advance notification and include relevant information (*e.g.,* sonar hours, explosives use) in its annual activity reports submitted to NMFS.


(B) *Marpi Reef and Chalan Kanoa Reef Awareness Notification Message Area.* (*1*) Navy personnel must issue a seasonal awareness notification message to alert Navy ships and aircraft operating in the Marpi Reef and Chalan Kanoa Reef Geographic Mitigation Areas to the possible presence of increased concentrations of humpback whales from December 1 through April 30.


(*2*) To maintain safety of navigation and to avoid interactions with large whales during transits, Navy personnel must instruct vessels to remain vigilant to the presence of humpback whales that when concentrated seasonally, may become vulnerable to vessel strikes.


(*3*) Navy personnel must use the information from the awareness notification message to assist their visual observation of applicable geographic mitigation zones during training and testing activities and to aid in the implementation of procedural mitigation.


(ii) [Reserved]


(2) *Mitigation areas for marine mammals off Guam of the MITT Study Area for sonar and explosives*—(i) *Mitigation area requirements*—(A) *Agat Bay Nearshore Geographic Mitigation Area.* (*1*) Navy personnel will not conduct MF1 surface ship hull-mounted mid-frequency active sonar year-round.


(*2*) Navy personnel will not use in-water explosives year-round.


(*3*) Should national security require the use of MF1 surface ship hull-mounted mid-frequency active sonar or explosives within the Agat Bay Nearshore Geographic Mitigation Area, Navy personnel must obtain permission from the appropriate designated Command authority prior to commencement of the activity. Navy personnel must provide NMFS with advance notification and include the information (*e.g.,* sonar hours, explosives usage) in its annual activity reports submitted to NMFS.


(B) [Reserved]






