# ยง 242.612   Minimum pricing increment.

(a) *Definitions.* For purposes of this section only, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth in this section.


(1) *Evaluation Period* means:


(i) The three months from January through March of a calendar year; and


(ii) The three months from July through September of a calendar year during which the Time Weighted Average Quoted Spread of an NMS stock shall be measured by the primary listing exchange to determine the minimum pricing increment for each NMS stock.


(2) *Time Weighted Average Quoted Spread* means the average dollar value difference between the NBB and NBO during regular trading hours where each instance of a unique NBB and NBO is weighted by the length of time that the quote prevailed as the NBB or NBO.


(b) *Minimum pricing increments.* (1) The minimum pricing increment under paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall be operative on:


(i) The first business day of May for the Evaluation Period from January through March and continue through the last business day of October of the calendar year; and


(ii) The first business day of November for the Evaluation Period from July through September and continue through the last business day of April of the next calendar year.


(2) No national securities exchange, national securities association, alternative trading system, vendor, or broker or dealer shall display, rank, or accept from any person a bid or offer, an order, or an indication of interest in any NMS stock in an increment smaller than required pursuant to either paragraph (b)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section if that bid or offer, order, or indication of interest is priced equal to or greater than $1.00 per share:


(i) $0.01, if the Time Weighted Average Quoted Spread for the NMS stock during the Evaluation Period was greater than, $0.015; or


(ii) $0.005, if the Time Weighted Average Quoted Spread for the NMS stock during the Evaluation Period was equal to or less than $0.015.


(3) No national securities exchange, national securities association, alternative trading system, vendor, or broker or dealer shall display, rank, or accept from any person a bid or offer, an order, or an indication of interest in any NMS stock priced in an increment smaller than $0.0001 if that bid or offer, order, or indication of interest is priced less than $1.00 per share.


(c) *New NMS Stocks.* Any security that becomes an NMS Stock during an operative period as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall be assigned a minimum pricing increment of $0.01 for bids or offers, orders, or indications of interest priced equal to or greater than $1.00 per share.


(d) *Exemptions.* The Commission, by order, may exempt from the provisions of this section, either unconditionally or on specified terms and conditions, any person, security, quotation, or order, or any class or classes of persons, securities, quotations, or orders, if the Commission determines that such exemption is necessary or appropriate in the public interest, and is consistent with the protection of investors.







---

[N] [89 FR 81774, Oct. 8, 2024]




