# ยง 230.90   Draw gear between steam locomotive and tender.

(a) *Maintenance and testing.* The draw gear between the steam locomotive and tender, together with the pins and fastenings, shall be maintained in safe and suitable condition for service. The pins and drawbar shall be removed and tested for defects using an appropriate NDE method at every annual inspection. Where visual inspection does not disclose any defects, an additional NDE testing method shall be employed. Suitable means for securing the drawbar pins in place shall be provided. Inverted drawbar pins shall be held in place by plate or stirrup.


(b) *Safety bars and chains generally.* One or more safety bar(s) or two or more safety chains shall be provided between the steam locomotive and tender. The combined strength of the safety chains or safety bar(s) and their fastenings shall be not less than 50 percent of the strength of the drawbar and its connections. These shall be maintained in safe and suitable condition for service, and inspected at the same time draw gear is inspected.


(c) *Minimum length of safety chains or bars.* Safety chains or safety bar(s) shall be of the minimum length consistent with the curvature of the railroad on which the steam locomotive is operated.


(d) *Lost motion.* Lost motion between steam locomotives and tenders not equipped with spring buffers shall be kept to a minimum and shall not exceed 
1/2 inch.


(e) *Spring buffers.* When spring buffers are used between steam locomotives and tenders the spring shall be applied with not less than 
3/4 inch compression, and shall at all times be under sufficient compression to keep the chafing faces in contact.




