# § 106.2   Fees.

(a) *I Forms*—(1) *Application to Replace Permanent Resident Card, Form I-90.* For filing an application for a Permanent Resident Card, Form I-551, to replace an obsolete card or to replace one lost, mutilated, or destroyed, or for a change in name $465.


(i) If the applicant was issued a card but never received it: No fee.


(ii) If the applicant's card was issued with incorrect information because of DHS error and the applicant is filing for a replacement: No fee.


(iii) If the applicant has reached their 14th birthday and their existing card will expire after their 16th birthday: No fee.


(2) *Application for Replacement/Initial Nonimmigrant Arrival-Departure Document, Form I-102.* For filing an application for Arrival/Departure Record Form I-94, or Crewman's Landing Permit Form I-95, to replace one lost, mutilated, or destroyed: $560.


(i) For nonimmigrant member of the U.S. armed forces: No fee for initial filing;


(ii) For a nonimmigrant member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) armed forces or civil component: No fee for initial filing;


(iii) For nonimmigrant member of the Partnership for Peace military program under the Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA): No fee for initial filing; and


(iv) For replacement for DHS error: No fee.


(3) *Petition or Application for a Nonimmigrant Worker, Form I-129.* For filing a petition or application for a nonimmigrant worker:


(i) Petition for H-1B Nonimmigrant Worker or H-1B1 Free Trade Nonimmigrant Worker: $780. For small employers and nonprofits: $460.


(ii) Petition for H-2A Nonimmigrant Worker with 1 to 25 named beneficiaries: $1,090.


(iii) Petition for H-2A Nonimmigrant Worker with only unnamed beneficiaries: $530. For small employers and nonprofits: $460.


(iv) Petition for H-2B Nonimmigrant Worker with 1 to 25 named beneficiaries: $1,080.


(v) Petition for H-2B Nonimmigrant Worker with only unnamed beneficiaries: $580. For small employers and nonprofits: $460.


(vi) Petition for L Nonimmigrant Worker: $1,385.


(vii) Petition for O Nonimmigrant Worker with 1 to 25 named beneficiaries: $1,055.


(viii) Petition or Application for E, H-3, P, Q, R, or TN Nonimmigrant Worker with 1 to 25 named beneficiaries: $1,015.


(ix) For small employers and nonprofits as defined in § 106.1(f), the fees in paragraphs (a)(3)(ii), (a)(3)(iv), (a)(3)(vi), (a)(3)(vii), and (a)(3)(viii) of this section will be one-half the amount in those paragraphs rounded to the nearest $5 increment.


(x) Additional fees in paragraph (c) of this section may apply.


(xi) The online filing discount in § 106.1(g) does not apply to the fee for small employers and nonprofits in paragraphs (a)(3)(i), (a)(3)(iii), (a)(3)(v), and (a)(3)(ix) of this section.”


(4) *Petition for a CNMI-Only Nonimmigrant Transitional Worker, Form I-129CW.*

(i) For an employer to petition on behalf of CW-1 nonimmigrant beneficiaries in the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands (CNMI): $1,015.


(ii) For small employers and nonprofits: $510. For the Semiannual Report for CW-1 Employers (Form I- 129CWR): No fee. The online filing discount in § 106.1(g) does not apply.


(iii) Additional fees in paragraph (c) of this section may apply.


(5) *Petition for Alien Fiancé(e), Form I-129F.* (i) For filing a petition to classify a nonimmigrant as a fiancée or fiancé under section 214(d) of the Act: $675.


(ii) For a K-3 spouse as designated in 8 CFR 214.1(a)(2) who is the beneficiary of an immigrant petition filed by a U.S. citizen on a Petition for Alien Relative, Form I-130: No fee.


(6) *Petition for Alien Relative, Form I-130.* For filing a petition to classify status of a foreign national relative for issuance of an immigrant visa under section 204(a) of the Act. $675.


(7) *Application for Travel Document, Form I-131.* (i) Refugee Travel Document for asylee and lawful permanent resident who obtained such status as an asylee 16 years or older: $165.


(ii) Refugee Travel Document for asylee or lawful permanent resident who obtained such status as an asylee under the age of 16: $135.


(iii) Advance Parole, Reentry Permit, and other travel documents: $630.


(iv) There is no fee for a travel document for applicants who filed USCIS Form I-485 on or after July 30, 2007, and before April 1, 2024, and paid the Form I-485 fee, while the I-485 remains pending.


(v) There is no fee for parole requests from current or former U.S. armed forces service members.


(vi) The discount in section 106.1(g) does not apply to paragraphs (a)(7)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(8) *Application for Carrier Documentation, Form I-131A.* For filing an application to allow an individual who loses their approved travel document to apply for a travel document (carrier documentation) to board an airline or other transportation carrier to return to the United States: $575.


(9) *Declaration of Financial Support, Form I-134.* To provide financial support to a beneficiary of certain immigration benefits for the duration of their temporary stay in the United States. No fee.


(10) *Online Request to be a Supporter and Declaration of Financial Support, Form I-134A.* To request to be a supporter and agree to provide financial support to a beneficiary and undergo background checks as part of certain special parole processes. No fee.


(11) *Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker, Form I-140.* For filing a petition to classify preference status of an alien based on profession or occupation under section 204(a) of the Act: $715.


(12) *Application for Relief Under Former Section 212(c) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA), Form I-191.* For filing an application for discretionary relief under section 212(c) of the Act: $930.


(13) *Application for Advance Permission to Enter as a Nonimmigrant, Form I-192.* For filing an application for discretionary relief under section 212(d)(3), (13), or (14) of the Act, except in an emergency case or where the approval of the application is in the interest of the U.S. Government: $1,100. The online filing discount in § 106.1(g) applies when this form is submitted to USCIS but does not apply to this paragraph when the form is submitted to CBP.


(14) *Application for Waiver of Passport and/or Visa, Form I-193.* For filing an application for waiver of passport and/or visa: $695. The discount in § 106.1(g) does not apply to this section when the form is submitted to CBP.


(15) *Application for Permission to Reapply for Admission into the United States After Deportation or Removal, Form I-212.* For filing an application for permission to reapply for admission by an excluded, deported, or removed alien; an alien who has fallen into distress; an alien who has been removed as an alien enemy; or an alien who has been removed at Government expense: $1,175. The online filing discount in § 106.1(g) does not apply to this section when the form is submitted to CBP.


(16) *Notice of Appeal or Motion, Form I-290B.* For appealing a decision under the immigration laws in any type of proceeding over which the Board of Immigration Appeals does not have appellate jurisdiction, and for filing a motion to reopen or reconsider a USCIS decision: $800.


(i) The fee will be the same for appeal of or motion on a denial of a benefit request with one or multiple beneficiaries.


(ii) There is no fee for conditional permanent residents who filed a waiver of the joint filing requirement based on battery or extreme cruelty and filed a Notice of Appeal or Motion (Form I-290B) when their Petition to Remove the Conditions on Residence (Form I-751) was denied.


(17) *Petition for Amerasian, Widow(er), or Special Immigrant, Form I-360:* $515. There is no fee for the following:


(i) A petition seeking classification as an Amerasian;


(ii) A petition seeking immigrant classification as a Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) self-petitioner;


(iii) A petition for Special Immigrant Juvenile classification;


(iv) A petition seeking special immigrant classification as Afghan or Iraqi translator or interpreter, Iraqi national employed by or on behalf of the U.S. Government, or Afghan national employed by or on behalf of the U.S. Government or employed by the International Security Assistance Force (ISAF); or a surviving spouse or child of such a person; or


(v) A petition for a person who served honorably on active duty in the U.S. armed forces filing under section 101(a)(27)(K) of the Act.


(18) *Affidavit of Financial Support and Intent to Petition for Legal Custody for Public Law 97-359 Amerasian, Form I-361.* Filed in support of Form I-360, Petition to Classify Public Law 97-359 Amerasian as the Child, Son, or Daughter of a United States Citizen. No fee.


(19) *Request to Enforce Affidavit of Financial Support and Intent to Petition for Legal Custody for Public Law 97-359 Amerasian, Form I-363.* For a beneficiary of a petition for a Public Law 97-359 Amerasian to request enforcement of the guarantee of financial support and legal custody executed by the beneficiary's sponsor. No fee.


(20) *Record of Abandonment of Lawful Permanent Resident Status, Form I-407.* To voluntarily abandon status as a lawful permanent resident. No fee.


(21) *Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status, Form I-485.* For filing an application for permanent resident status or creation of a record of lawful permanent residence:


(i) $1,440 for an applicant 14 years of age or older; or


(ii) $950 for an applicant under the age of 14 years who submits the application concurrently with the Form I-485 of a parent.


(iii) There is no fee for the following:


(A) An applicant who is in deportation, exclusion, or removal proceedings before an immigration judge, and the court waives the application fee.


(B) An applicant who served honorably on active duty in the U.S. armed forces who is filing under section 101(a)(27)(K) of the Act.


(22) *Application to Adjust Status under Section 245(i) of the Act, Form I-485 Supplement A.* Supplement A to Form I-485 for persons seeking to adjust status under the provisions of section 245(i) of the Act a sum of $1,000 be paid while the applicant's, “Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status,” is pending, unless payment of the additional sum is not required under section 245(i) of the Act, including:


(i) If applicant is unmarried and under 17 years of age: No fee.


(ii) If the applicant is the spouse or unmarried child under 21 years of age of a legalized alien and attaches a copy of a USCIS receipt or approval notice for a properly filed Form I-817, Application for Family Unity Benefits: No fee.


(23) *Confirmation of Bona Fide Job Offer or Request for Job Portability Under INA Section 204(j), Form I-485J.* To confirm that the job offered in Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Workers, remains a bona fide job offer that the beneficiary intends to accept once we approve the Form I-485, Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status, or request job portability under INA section 204(j) to a new, full-time, permanent job offer that the beneficiary intends to accept once we approve the Form I-485. No fee.


(24) *Request for Waiver of Certain Rights, Privileges, Exemptions, and Immunities, Form I-508.* To waive certain diplomatic rights privileges, exemptions, and immunities associated with your occupational status. No fee.


(25) *Immigrant Petition by Standalone or Regional Center Investor, Forms I-526 and I-526E.* To petition USCIS for status as an immigrant to the United States under section 203(b)(5) of the Act.


(i) Immigrant Petition by Standalone Investor, Form I-526: $11,160.


(ii) Immigrant Petition by Regional Center Investor, Form I-526E: $11,160.


(26) *Application To Extend/Change Nonimmigrant Status, Form I-539.* For certain nonimmigrants to extend their stay or change to another nonimmigrant status, CNMI residents applying for an initial grant of status, F and M nonimmigrants applying for reinstatement, and persons seeking V nonimmigrant status or an extension of stay as a V nonimmigrant. $470. There is no fee for Nonimmigrant A, G, and NATO.


(27) *Interagency Record of Request—A, G, or NATO Dependent Employment Authorization or Change/Adjustment To/From A, G, or NATO Status, Form I-566.* For dependent employment authorization as an eligible A-1, A-2, G-1, G-3, G-4, or NATO 1-6 dependent; or change or adjustment of status to, or from, A, G or NATO status. No fee.


(28) *Application for Asylum and Withholding of Removal, Form I-589.* To apply for asylum and withholding of removal. No fee.


(29) *Registration for Classification as a Refugee, Form I-590.* To determine eligibility for refugee classification and resettlement in the United States. No fee.


(30) *Petition to Classify Orphan as an Immediate Relative, Form I-600.* For filing a petition to classify an orphan as an immediate relative: $920.


(i) There is no fee for the first Form I-600 filed for a child based on an approved *Application for Advance Processing of an Orphan Petition,* Form I-600A, during the Form I-600A approval period.


(ii) If more than one Form I-600 is filed during the Form I-600A approval period on behalf of beneficiaries who are birth siblings, no additional fee is required.


(iii) If more than one Form I-600 is filed during the Form I-600A approval period on behalf of beneficiaries who are not birth siblings, the fee is $920 for the second and each subsequent Form I-600 petition submitted.


(iv) This filing fee is not charged if a new Form I-600 combination filing is filed due to a change in marital status while the prior Form I-600A or Form I-600 combination filing is pending.


(v) This filing fee is charged if a new Form I-600 combination filing is filed due to a change in marital status after the Form I-600A or Form I-600 combination filing suitability determined is approved.


(31) *Application for Advance Processing of an Orphan Petition, Form I-600A.* For filing an application for determination of suitability and eligibility to adopt an orphan: $920.


(i) This filing fee is not charged if a new Form I-600A is filed due to a change in marital status while the prior Form I-600A is pending.


(ii) This filing fee is charged if a new Form I-600A is filed due to a change in marital status after the Form I-600A is approved.


(32) *Request for Action on Approved Form I-600A/I-600, Form I-600A/I-600 Supplement 3.* To request an extension of a suitability determination; updated suitability determination; change of non-Convention country; or a duplicate approval notice. $455. This filing fee:


(i) Is not charged to obtain a first or second extension of the approval of Form I-600A, or to obtain a first or second change of non-Hague Adoption Convention country during the Form I-600A approval period.


(ii) Is not charged for a request for a duplicate approval notice.


(iii) Is charged to request a new approval notice based on a significant change and updated home study unless there is also a request for a first or second extension of the Form I-600A approval, or a first or second change of non-Hague Adoption Convention country on the same Supplement 3.


(iv) Is charged for third or subsequent extensions of the approval of the Form I-600A and third or subsequent changes of non-Hague Adoption Convention country.


(33) *Application for Waiver of Ground of Inadmissibility, Form I-601.* To seek a waiver of grounds of inadmissibility if you are inadmissible to the United States and are seeking an immigrant visa, adjustment of status, certain nonimmigrant statuses, or certain other immigration benefits. $1,050. For applicants for adjustment of status of Indochina refugees under Public Law 95-145. No fee.


(34) *Application for Provisional Unlawful Presence Waiver, Form I-601A.* To request a provisional waiver of the unlawful presence grounds of inadmissibility under section 212(a)(9)(B) of the Act. $795.


(35) *Application by Refugee for Waiver of Grounds of Inadmissibility, Form I-602.* For a refugee who has been found inadmissible to the United States to apply for a waiver of inadmissibility for humanitarian reasons, family unity, or national interest. No fee.


(36) *Application for Waiver of the Foreign Residence Requirement (under Section 212(e) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, as Amended), Form I-612.* For J-1 and J-2 visas holders and their families to apply for a waiver of the two-year foreign residence requirement. $1,100.


(37) *Application for Status as a Temporary Resident under Section 245A of the Immigration and Nationality Act, Form I-687.* To apply for a waiver of inadmissibility for an applicant for adjustment of status under section 245A or 210 of the Act. $1,240.


(38) *Application for Waiver of Grounds of Inadmissibility, Form I-690.* For filing an application for waiver of a ground of inadmissibility under section 212(a) of the Act as amended, in conjunction with the application under section 210 or 245A of the Act: $905.


(39) *Report of Immigration Medical Examination and Vaccination Record (Form I-693).* For adjustment of status applicants to establish they are not inadmissible to the United States on health-related grounds. No fee.


(40) *Notice of Appeal of Decision under Sections 245A or 210 of the Immigration and Nationality Act, Form I-694.* For appealing the denial of an application under section 210 or 245A of the Act, or a petition under section 210A of the Act: $1,125.


(41) *Application to Adjust Status from Temporary to Permanent Resident (Under Section 245A of the INA), Form I-698.* For filing an application to adjust status from temporary to permanent resident (under section 245A of Pub. L. 99-603): $1,670.


(42) *Refugee/Asylee Relative Petition, Form I-730.* For a refugee to request a spouse and unmarried child be approved to join them in the United States. No fee.


(43) *Petition to Remove Conditions on Residence, Form I-751.* For filing a petition to remove the conditions on residence based on marriage: $750. There is no fee for a conditional permanent resident spouse or child who files a waiver of the joint filing requirement based on battery or extreme cruelty.


(44) *Application for Employment Authorization, Form I-765.* To request employment authorization and/or an Employment Authorization Document (EAD). $520.


(i) For an applicant who filed USCIS Form I-485 with a fee after April 1, 2024, and their Form I-485 is still pending: $260. The online filing discount in § 106.1(g) does not apply to this paragraph.


(ii) There is no fee for an initial Employment Authorization Document for the following:


(A) An applicant who filed USCIS Form I-485 on or after July 30, 2007, and before April 1, 2024, and paid the Form I-485 fee;


(B) Dependents of certain government and international organizations or NATO personnel;


(C) N-8 (Parent of alien classed as SK3) and N-9 (Child of N-8) nonimmigrants;


(D) Persons granted asylee status (AS1, AS6);


(E) Citizen of Micronesia, Marshall Islands, or Palau;


(F) Persons granted Withholding of Deportation or Removal;


(G) Applicant for Asylum and Withholding of Deportation or Removal including derivatives;


(H) Taiwanese dependents of Taipei Economic and Cultural Representative Office (TECRO) E-1 employees; and


(I) Current or former U.S. armed forces service members.


(iii) Request for replacement Employment Authorization Document based on USCIS error: No fee.


(iv) There is no fee for a renewal or replacement Employment Authorization Document for the following:


(A) Any current Adjustment of Status or Registry applicant who filed for adjustment of status on or after July 30, 2007, and before April 1, 2024, and paid the appropriate Form I-485 filing fee;


(B) Dependent of certain foreign government, international organization, or NATO personnel;


(C) Citizen of Micronesia, Marshall Islands, or Palau; and


(D) Persons granted withholding of deportation or removal.


(E) Current or former U.S. armed forces service members.


(45) *Application for Employment Authorization for Abused Nonimmigrant Spouse, Form I-765V.* Used for certain abused nonimmigrant spouses to request an employment authorization document (EAD). No fee.


(46) *Petition to Classify Convention Adoptee as an Immediate Relative, Form I-800.* For filing a petition to classify a Convention adoptee as an immediate relative: $920.


(i) There is no fee for the first Form I-800 filed for a child based on an approved *Application for Determination of Suitability to Adopt a Child from a Convention Country,* Form I-800A, during the Form I-800A approval period.


(ii) If more than one Form I-800 is filed during the Form I-800A approval period on behalf of beneficiaries who are birth siblings, no additional fee is required.


(iii) If more than one Form I-800 is filed during the Form I-800A approval period on behalf of beneficiaries who are not birth siblings, the fee is $920 for the second and each subsequent Form I-800 petition submitted.


(47) *Application for Determination of Suitability to Adopt a Child from a Convention Country, Form I-800A.* For filing an application for determination of suitability and eligibility to adopt a child from a Hague Adoption Convention country: $920.


(i) This filing fee is not charged if a new Form I-800A is filed due to a change in marital status while the prior Form I-800A is pending.


(ii) This filing fee is charged if a new Form I-800A is filed due to a change in marital status after the Form I-800A is approved.


(48) *Request for Action on Approved Form I-800A, Form I-800A Supplement 3.* To request an extension of a suitability determination; updated suitability determination; change in Convention country; or a request for a duplicate approval notice. $455. This filing fee:


(i) Is not charged to obtain a first or second extension of the approval of Form I-800A, or to obtain a first or second change of Hague Adoption Convention country during the Form I-800A approval period.


(ii) Is not charged for a request for a duplicate approval notice.


(iii) Is charged to request a new approval notice based on a significant change and updated home study unless there is a request for a first or second extension of the Form I-800A approval, or a first or second change of Hague Adoption Convention country on the same Supplement 3.


(iv) Is charged for third or subsequent extensions of the Form I-800A approval and third or subsequent changes of Hague Adoption Convention country.


(49) *Application for Family Unity Benefits, Form I-817.* For filing an application for voluntary departure under the Family Unity Program: $760.


(50) *Application for Temporary Protected Status, Form I-821.* For an eligible national of a designated country or a person without nationality who last habitually resided in the designated country to apply for Temporary Protected Status (TPS).


(i) For first time applicants: $50 or the maximum permitted by section 244(c)(1)(B) of the Act.


(ii) There is no fee for re-registration.


(iii) A Temporary Protected Status (TPS) applicant or re-registrant must pay $30 for biometric services.


(iv) The online filing discount in § 106.1(g) does not apply to paragraphs (a)(50)(i) and (a)(50)(ii) of this section.


(51) *Consideration of Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, Form I-821D.* To request that USCIS consider granting or renewing deferred action under 8 CFR 236.21-236.25. $85. The online filing discount in § 106.1(g) does not apply to this section.


(52) *Application for Action on an Approved Application or Petition, Form I-824.* To request additional action on a previously approved benefit request. $590.


(53) *Petition by Investor to Remove Conditions on Permanent Resident Status, Form I-829.* For a conditional permanent resident who obtained status through qualified investment to remove the conditions on their residence. $9,525.


(54) *Inter-Agency Alien Witness and Informant Record, Form I-854.* To request an alien witness and/or informant receive classification as an S nonimmigrant. No fee.


(55) *Affidavit of Support Under Section 213A of the INA, Form I-864.* For immigrants to show they have adequate means of financial support and are not likely to rely on the U.S. government for financial support. No fee.


(i) *Contract Between Sponsor and Household Member, Form I-864A.* For a household member to promise to support sponsored immigrants. No fee.


(ii) *Affidavit of Support Under Section 213A of the INA, Form I-864EZ.* To show that the applying immigrant has adequate means of financial support and is not likely to rely on the U.S. government for financial support. No fee.


(iii) *Request for Exemption for Intending Immigrant's Affidavit of Support, Form I-864W.* To establish that an applicant is exempt from the Form I-864 requirements. No fee.


(iv) *Sponsor's Notice of Change of Address, Form I-865.* To report a sponsor's new address and/or residence. No fee.


(56) *Application for Suspension of Deportation or Special Rule Cancellation of Removal (Pursuant to Section 203 of Pub. L. 105-100), Form I-881.* To apply for suspension of deportation or special rule cancellation of removal under the Nicaraguan Adjustment and Central American Relief Act.


(i) $340 for adjudication by DHS.


(ii) $165 for adjudication by EOIR. If the Form I-881 is referred to the immigration court by DHS: No fee.


(iii) If filing Form I-881 as a VAWA self-petitioner, including derivatives, as defined under section 101(a)(51)(F) of the Act: No fee.


(57) *Application for Authorization to Issue Certification for Health Care Workers, Form I-905.* For an organization to apply for authorization to issue certificates to health care workers. $230.


(58) *Request for Premium Processing Service, Form I-907.* The Request for Premium Processing Service fee will be as provided in § 106.4. The online filing discount in § 106.1(g) does not apply to a request for premium processing.


(59) *Request for Civil Surgeon Designation, Form I-910.* To apply for civil surgeon designation. $990.


(60) *Request for Fee Waiver, Form I-912.* To request a fee waiver. No fee.


(61) *Application for T Nonimmigrant Status, Form I-914.* To request temporary immigration benefits for a victim of a severe form of trafficking in persons, also known as human trafficking. No fee.


(i) *Supplement A to Form I-914, Application for Immigrant Family Member of a T-1 Recipient.* To request temporary immigration benefits for eligible family members of a victim of a severe form of trafficking in persons. No fee.


(ii) *Supplement B to Form I-914, Declaration of Law Enforcement Officer for Victim of Trafficking in Persons.* For a law enforcement agency to certify that a trafficking victim is being helpful to law enforcement during the detection, investigation, or prosecution of the trafficking. No fee.


(62) *Petition for U Nonimmigrant Status, Form I-918.* For a victim of qualifying criminal activity to petition for temporary immigration benefits. No fee.


(i) *Supplement A to Form I-918, Petition for Qualifying Family Member of U-1 Recipient.* To request temporary immigration benefits for qualifying family members of a victim of qualifying criminal activity. No fee.


(ii) *Supplement B to Form I-918, U Nonimmigrant Status Certification.* For a law enforcement agency to certify that an individual is a victim of qualifying criminal activity and has been, is being, or is likely to be helpful to law enforcement in the detection, investigation, or prosecution of the qualifying criminal activity. No fee.


(63) *Petition for Qualifying Family Member of a U-1 Nonimmigrant, Form I-929.* For a principal U-1 nonimmigrant to request immigration benefits on behalf of a qualifying family member who has never held U nonimmigrant status. No fee.


(64) *Application for Entrepreneur Parole, Form I-941.* For filing an application for parole for an entrepreneur. $1,200.


(65) *Application for Regional Center Designation, Form I-956.* To request designation as a regional center or to request an amendment to an approved regional center. $47,695.


(66) *Application for Approval of Investment in a Commercial Enterprise, Form I-956F.* To request approval of each particular investment offering through an associated new commercial enterprise. $47,695.


(67) *Regional Center Annual Statement, Form I-956G.* To provide updated information and certify that a Regional Center under the Immigrant Investor Program has maintained its eligibility. $4,470.


(68) *Bona Fides of Persons Involved with Regional Center Program, Form I-956H.* For each person involved with a regional center to attest to their compliance with section 203(b)(5)(H) of the Act. No fee.


(69) *Registration for Direct and Third-Party Promoters, Form I-956K.* For each person acting as a direct or third-party promoter (including migration agents) of a regional center, any new commercial enterprises, an affiliated job-creating entity, or an issuer of securities intended to be offered to immigrant investors in connection with a particular capital investment project. No fee.


(b) *N Forms*—(1) *Application to File Declaration of Intention, Form N-300.* For a permanent resident to declare their intent to become a U.S. citizen. $320.


(2) *Request for a Hearing on a Decision in Naturalization Proceedings Under Section 336, Form N-336.* To request a hearing before an immigration officer on the denial of Form N-400, Application for Naturalization. $830. There is no fee for an applicant who has filed an *Application for Naturalization* under section 328 or 329 of the Act with respect to military service and whose application has been denied.


(3) *Application for Naturalization, Form N-400.* To apply for U.S. citizenship. $760. The following exceptions apply:


(i) No fee is charged an applicant who meets the requirements of section 328 or 329 of the Act with respect to military service.


(ii) The fee for an applicant whose documented household income is less than or equal to 400 percent of the Federal Poverty Guidelines: $380. The discount in section 106.1(g) does not apply to this section.


(4) *Request for Certification of Military or Naval Service, Form N-426.* To request that the Department of Defense verify military or naval service. No fee.


(5) *Application to Preserve Residence for Naturalization Purposes, Form N-470.* Application for a lawful permanent resident who must leave the United States to preserve their residence to pursue naturalization. $420.


(6) *Application for Replacement Naturalization/Citizenship Document, Form N-565.* To apply for a replacement Declaration of Intention; Naturalization Certificate; Certificate of Citizenship; or Repatriation Certificate; or to apply for a special certificate of naturalization as a U.S. citizen to be recognized by a foreign country. $555. There is no fee when this application is submitted under 8 CFR 338.5(a) to request correction of a certificate that contains an error.


(7) *Application for Certificate of Citizenship, Form N-600.* To apply for a Certificate of Citizenship. $1,385.


(i) There is no fee for any application filed by a current or former member of any branch of the U.S. armed forces on their own behalf.


(ii) There is no fee for an application filed on behalf of an individual who is the subject of a final adoption for immigration purposes and meets (or met before age 18) the definition of child under section 101(b)(1)(E), (F), or (G) of the Act.


(8) *Application for Citizenship and Issuance of Certificate Under Section 322, Form N-600K.* Application for children who regularly reside outside the United States to apply for citizenship based on a U.S. citizen parent. $1,385. There is no fee for an application filed on behalf of a child who is the subject of a final adoption for immigration purposes and meets the definition of child under section 101(b)(1)(E), (F), or (G) of the Act.


(9) *Application for Posthumous Citizenship, Form N-644.* To request citizenship for someone who died because of injury or disease incurred in or aggravated by service in an active-duty status with the U.S. armed forces during a specified period of military hostilities. No fee.


(10) *Medical Certification for Disability Exceptions, Form N-648.* For a naturalization applicant to request an exception to the English and civics testing requirements for naturalization because of physical or developmental disability or mental impairment. No fee.


(c) *G Forms, statutory fees, and non-form fees*—(1) *Genealogy Index Search Request, Form G-1041.* The fee is due regardless of the search results. $80.


(2) *Genealogy Records Request, Form G-1041A.* USCIS will refund the records request fee when it cannot find any file previously identified in response to the index search request. $80.


(3) *USCIS immigrant fee.* For DHS domestic processing and issuance of required documents after an immigrant visa is issued by the U.S. Department of State: $235.


(4) *American Competitiveness and Workforce Improvement Act (ACWIA) fee.* For filing certain H-1B petitions as described in 8 CFR 214.2(h)(19): $1,500 or $750.


(5) *Fraud detection and prevention fee.* (i) For filing certain H-1B and L petitions as described in 8 U.S.C. 1184(c): $500.


(ii) For filing H-2B petitions as described in 8 U.S.C. 1184(c): $150.


(6) *Fraud detection and prevention fee for Form I-129CW.* For filing certain CW-1 petitions as described in Public Law 115-218: $50.


(7) *CNMI education funding fee.* For filing certain CW-1 petitions as described in Public Law 115-218 and USCIS form instructions. The fee amount will be as prescribed in the form instructions and:


(i) The employer must pay the fee for each beneficiary and for each year or partial year of requested validity; and


(ii) Beginning in FY 2020, the $200 fee may be adjusted once per year by notice in the _Federal Register_ based on the amount of inflation according to the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (CPI-U).


(8) *9-11 response and biometric entry-exit fee for H-1B Visa.* For certain petitioners who employ 50 or more employees in the United States if more than 50 percent of the petitioner's employees are in H-1B, L-1A, or L-1B nonimmigrant status: $4,000. Collection of this fee is scheduled to end on September 30, 2027.


(9) *9-11 response and biometric entry-exit fee for L-1 Visa.* For certain petitioners who employ 50 or more employees in the United States, if more than 50 percent of the petitioner's employees are in H-1B, L-1A, or L-1B nonimmigrant status: $4,500. Collection of this fee is scheduled to end on September 30, 2027.


(10) *Claimant under section 289 of the Act.* For American Indians who are born in Canada and possess at least 50 percent American Indian blood to request lawful permanent resident status. No fee.


(11) Registration requirement for petitioners seeking to file H-1B petitions on behalf of cap-subject aliens. For each registration submitted to register for the H-1B cap or advanced degree exemption selection process: $215. This fee is not subject to the online discount provided in § 106.1(g).


(12) *Request for Certificate of Non-Existence, G-1566.* For a certification of non-existence of a naturalization record. $330.


(13) *Asylum Program Fee.* In addition to the fees required by § 106.2(a)(3), (a)(4) and (a)(11), to fund the asylum program, the Asylum Program Fee must be paid by any petitioner filing a *Petition for a Nonimmigrant Worker,* Form I-129 under 8 CFR 214.2, *Petition for a CNMI-Only Nonimmigrant Transitional Worker,* Form I-129CW under 8 CFR 214.2(w), or an *Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker,* Form I-140 under 8 CFR 204.1(a). $600. For petitions:


(i) Filed by a nonprofit as defined in § 106.1(f): No fee.


(ii) Filed by a small employer as defined in § 106.1(f): $300.


(iii) The online filing discount provided in § 106.1(g) does not apply to this fee.


(d) *Inflationary adjustment.* The fees prescribed in this section that are not set or limited by statute may be adjusted, but not more often than once per year, by publication of a rule in the _Federal Register_ that:


(1) Is based on the amount of inflation as measured by the difference in the CPI-U as published by the U.S. Department of Labor, U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics in April of the year of the last fee rule and the year of the adjustment under this section.


(2) Adjusts all fees that are not set by statute based on the amount of inflation.


(3) Rounds the fees calculated by the amount of inflation to the nearest $5 increment.



---

[N] [85 FR 46916, Aug. 3, 2020, as amended at 86 FR 14227, Mar. 15, 2021; 87 FR 53297, Aug. 30, 2022; 89 FR 6386, Jan. 31, 2024; 89 FR 20104, Mar. 21, 2024]






