# ยง 1292.1   Representation of others.

(a) A person entitled to representation may be represented by any of the following: 


(1) *Attorneys in the United States.* Any attorney as defined in ยง 1001.1(f) of this chapter and who, once the registration requirements in paragraph (f) of this section have taken effect, is registered to practice with the Executive Office for Immigration Review.


(2) *Law students and law graduates not yet admitted to the bar.* A law student who is enrolled in an accredited U.S. law school, or a graduate of an accredited U.S. law school who is not yet admitted to the bar, provided that:


(i) He or she is appearing at the request of the person entitled to representation;


(ii) In the case of a law student, he or she has filed a statement that he or she is participating, under the direct supervision of an EOIR-registered licensed attorney or accredited representative, in a legal aid program or clinic conducted by a law school or non-profit organization, and that he or she is without direct or indirect remuneration from the alien he or she represents;


(iii) In the case of a law graduate, he or she has filed a statement that he or she is appearing under the supervision of an EOIR-registered licensed attorney or accredited representative and that he or she is appearing without direct or indirect remuneration from the alien he or she represents;


(iv) When the law student or law graduate appears before the immigration court or the Board of Immigration Appeals, the law student or law graduate is supervised by an attorney or accredited representative who must appear simultaneously at the same hearing. The accompanying attorney or accredited representative must be authorized to practice before EOIR and be prepared to proceed with the case at all times; and


(v) All filings by law students and law graduates are made through an EOIR-registered attorney or accredited representative.


(3) *Reputable individuals.* Any reputable individual of good moral character, provided that: 


(i) He is appearing on an individual case basis, at the request of the person entitled to representation; 


(ii) He is appearing without direct or indirect renumeration and files a written declaration to that effect; 


(iii) He has a pre-existing relationship or connection with the person entitled to representation (e.g., as a relative, neighbor, clergyman, business associate or personal friend), provided that such requirement may be waived, as a matter of administrative discretion, in cases where adequate representation would not otherwise be available; and 


(iv) His appearance is permitted by the official before whom he wished to appear (namely, a special inquiry officer, district director, officer-in-charge, regional commissioner, the Commissioner, or the Board), provided that such permission shall not be granted with respect to any individual who regularly engages in immigration and naturalization practice or preparation, or holds himself out to the public as qualified to do so. 


(4) *Accredited representative.* An individual whom EOIR has authorized to represent immigration clients on behalf of a recognized organization, and whose period of accreditation is current and has not expired. A partially accredited representative is authorized to practice solely before DHS. A fully accredited representative is authorized to practice before DHS, and upon registration, to practice before the Immigration Courts and the Board.


(5) *Accredited officials.* An accredited official, in the United States, of the government to which an alien owes allegiance, if the official appears solely in his official capacity and with the alien's consent. 


(b) *Persons formerly authorized to practice.* A person, other than a representative of an organization described in ยง 1292.2 of this chapter, who on December 23, 1952, was authorized to practice before the Board and the Service may continue to act as a representative, subject to the provisions of ยง 1292.3 of this chapter. 


(c) *Former employees.* No person previously employed by the Department of Justice shall be permitted to act as a representative in any case in violation of the provisions of 28 CFR 45.735-7. 


(d) *Amicus curiae.* The Board may grant permission to appear, on a case-by-case basis, as amicus curiae, to an attorney or to an organization represented by an attorney, if the public interest will be served thereby. 


(e) Except as set forth in this section, no other person or persons shall represent others in any case.


(f) *Registration requirement for attorneys and accredited representatives.* The Director or his designee is authorized to register, and establish procedures for registering, attorneys and accredited representatives, specified in paragraph (a) of this section, as a condition of practice before immigration judges or the Board of Immigration Appeals. Such registration procedures will include a requirement for electronic registration and that each registrant validate his or her identity by presenting photo identification. The Director or his designee may administratively suspend from practice before the immigration judges and the Board any attorney or accredited representative who fails to provide the following required registration information: name, business address(es), business telephone number(s), date of birth, email address, bar admission information (if applicable), and recognized organization (if applicable), or who, after having provided that information, fails to present photo identification or comply with any other validation requirements implemented by the Director. After such a system has been established, an immigration judge may, under extraordinary and rare circumstances, permit an unregistered attorney or accredited representative to appear at one hearing if the immigration judge first acquires from the attorney or accredited representative, on the record, the required registration information. An unregistered attorney or accredited representative who is permitted to appear at a hearing in such circumstances must complete the electronic registration process without delay after the hearing at which he or she is permitted to appear.



---

[N] [40 FR 23271, May 29, 1975, as amended at 53 FR 7728, Mar. 10, 1988; 55 FR 49251, Nov. 27, 1990; 61 FR 53610, Oct. 15, 1996; 62 FR 23635, May 1, 1997; 73 FR 76927, Dec. 18, 2008; 78 FR 19408, Apr. 1, 2013; 81 FR 92367, Dec. 19, 2016; 86 FR 70725, Dec. 13, 2021] 




