# ยง 3550.163   Transfer of security and assumption of indebtedness.

(a) *General policy.* RHS mortgages contain due-on-sale clauses that generally require RHS consent before title to a security property can be transferred with an assumption of the indebtedness. If it is in the best interest of the Government, RHS will approve the transfer of title and assumption of indebtedness on program or nonprogram (NP) terms, depending on the transferee's eligibility and the property's characteristics. 


(b) *RHS approval of assumptions.* (1) A borrower with a loan on program terms who wishes to transfer a security property restricted by a due-on-sale clause to a purchaser who wishes to assume the debt must receive prior authorization from RHS. If RHS authorizes the transfer and assumption, the account will be serviced in the purchaser's name and the purchaser will be liable for the loan under the terms of the security instrument. 


(2) If a borrower transfers title to the security property with a due-on-sale clause without obtaining RHS authorization, RHS will not approve assumption of the indebtedness, and the loan will be liquidated unless RHS determines that it is in the Government's best interest to continue the loan. If RHS decides to continue the loan, the account will be serviced in the original borrower's name and the original borrower will remain liable for the loan under the terms of the security instrument. 


(c) *Exceptions to due-on-sale clauses.* (1) Due-on-sale clauses are not triggered by the following types of transfers: 


(i) A transfer from the borrower to a spouse or children not resulting from the death of the borrower. 


(ii) A transfer to a relative, joint tenant, or tenant by the entirety resulting from the death of the borrower. 


(iii) A transfer to a spouse or ex-spouse resulting from a divorce decree, legal separation agreement, or property settlement agreement. 


(iv) A transfer to a person other than a deceased borrower's spouse who wishes to assume the loan for the benefit of persons who were dependent on the deceased borrower at the time of death, if the dwelling will be occupied by one or more persons who were dependent on the borrower at the time of death, and there is a reasonable prospect of repayment. 


(v) A transfer into an inter vivos trust in which the borrower does not transfer rights of occupancy in the property. 


(2) A transferee who obtains property through one of the types of transfer listed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section: 


(i) Is not required to assume the loan, and RHS is not permitted to liquidate the loan, if the transferee continues to make scheduled payments and meet all other obligations of the loan. A transferee who does not assume the loan is not eligible for payment assistance or a moratorium. 


(ii) May assume the loan on the rates and terms contained in the promissory note, with no down payment. If the account is past due at the time an assumption is executed, the account may be brought current by using any of the servicing methods discussed in subpart E of this part. 


(iii) May assume the loan under new rates and terms if the transferee applies and is program-eligible. 


(3) Any subsequent transfer of title, except upon death of the inheritor or between inheritors to consolidate title, will be treated as a sale. 


(d) *Requirements for an assumption.* (1) Loans secured by program-eligible properties to be assumed by program-eligible purchasers may be assumed on program terms. Loans secured by nonprogram properties and loans to be assumed by purchasers who are not eligible for program terms may be assumed on NP terms. 


(2) The amount the transferee will assume will be either the current market value less any prior liens and any required down payment, or the indebtedness, whichever is less. 


(3) For loans assumed on program terms, the interest rate charged by RHS will be the rate in effect at loan approval or loan closing, whichever is lower. For loans assumed on nonprogram terms, the interest rate will be the rate in effect at the time of loan approval. 


(4) If additional financing is required to purchase the property or to make repairs, RHS may approve a subsequent loan under subparts B or C of this part. 


(5) If an appraisal is required for an assumption on new terms, the purchaser is responsible for the appraisal fee. 


(6) If all or a portion of the borrower's account balance is assumed, the borrower and cosigner, if any, will be released from liability on the amount of the indebtedness assumed. If an account balance remains after the assumption, RHS may pursue debt settlement in accordance with subpart F of this part. 


(7) Unless it is in the Government's best interest, RHS will not approve an assumption of a secured loan if the seller fails to repay any unsecured RHS loan. 


(8) If a loan is secured by a property with a dwelling situated on more than a minimum adequate site and the excess property cannot be sold separately as a minimum adequate site for another dwelling, RHS may approve a transfer of the entire property. If the excess property can be sold separately as a minimum adequate site, RHS will approve assumption of only the dwelling and the minimum adequate site. If the value of the dwelling on the minimum adequate site is less than the amount of the outstanding RHS debt, the remaining debt will be secured by the excess property. The outstanding debt will be converted to an NP loan and reamortized over a period not to exceed 10 years or the final due date of the original promissory note, whichever is sooner. 



---

[N] [61 FR 59779, Nov. 22, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 78332, Dec. 24, 2002]




