# ยง 441.505   Definitions.

As used in this subpart:


*Activities of daily living* (ADLs) means basic personal everyday activities including, but not limited to, tasks such as eating, toileting, grooming, dressing, bathing, and transferring.


*Agency-provider model* means a method of providing Community First Choice services and supports under which entities contract for or provide through their own employees, the provision of such services and supports, or act as the employer of record for attendant care providers selected by the individual enrolled in Community First Choice.


*Backup systems and supports* means electronic devices used to ensure continuity of services and supports. These items may include an array of available technology, personal emergency response systems, and other mobile communication devices. Persons identified by an individual can also be included as backup supports.


*Health-related tasks* means specific tasks related to the needs of an individual, which can be delegated or assigned by licensed health-care professionals under State law to be performed by an attendant.


*Individual* means the eligible individual and, if applicable, the individual's representative.


*Individual's representative* means a parent, family member, guardian, advocate, or other person authorized by the individual to serve as a representative in connection with the provision of CFC services and supports. This authorization should be in writing, when feasible, or by another method that clearly indicates the individual's free choice. An individual's representative may not also be a paid caregiver of an individual receiving services and supports under this subpart.


*Instrumental activities of daily living* (IADLs) means activities related to living independently in the community, including but not limited to, meal planning and preparation, managing finances, shopping for food, clothing, and other essential items, performing essential household chores, communicating by phone or other media, and traveling around and participating in the community.


*Other models* means methods, other than an agency-provider model or the self-directed model with service budget, for the provision of self-directed services and supports, as approved by CMS.


*Self-directed* means a consumer controlled method of selecting and providing services and supports that allows the individual maximum control of the home and community-based attendant services and supports, with the individual acting as the employer of record with necessary supports to perform that function, or the individual having a significant and meaningful role in the management of a provider of service when the agency-provider model is utilized. Individuals exercise as much control as desired to select, train, supervise, schedule, determine duties, and dismiss the attendant care provider.


*Self-directed model with service budget* means methods of providing self-directed services and supports using an individualized service budget. These methods may include the provision of vouchers, direct cash payments, and/or use of a fiscal agent to assist in obtaining services.




