# § 1926.1411   Power line safety—while traveling under or near power lines with no load.

(a) This section establishes procedures and criteria that must be met for equipment traveling under or near a power line on a construction site with no load. Equipment traveling on a construction site with a load is governed by § 1926.1408, § 1926.1409 or § 1926.1410, whichever is appropriate, and § 1926.1417(u).


(b) The employer must ensure that:


(1) The boom/mast and boom/mast support system are lowered sufficiently to meet the requirements of this paragraph.


(2) The clearances specified in Table T of this section are maintained.


(3) The effects of speed and terrain on equipment movement (including movement of the boom/mast) are considered so that those effects do not cause the minimum clearance distances specified in Table T of this section to be breached.


(4) *Dedicated spotter.* If any part of the equipment while traveling will get closer than 20 feet to the power line, the employer must ensure that a dedicated spotter who is in continuous contact with the driver/operator is used. The dedicated spotter must:


(i) Be positioned to effectively gauge the clearance distance.


(ii) Where necessary, use equipment that enables the dedicated spotter to communicate directly with the operator.


(iii) Give timely information to the operator so that the required clearance distance can be maintained.


(5) *Additional precautions for traveling in poor visibility.* When traveling at night, or in conditions of poor visibility, in addition to the measures specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section, the employer must ensure that:


(i) The power lines are illuminated or another means of identifying the location of the lines is used.


(ii) A safe path of travel is identified and used.


