# § 230.3   Definitions.

For purposes of this part, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:


(a) The term *Act* means the Clean Water Act (also known as the Federal Water Pollution Control Act or FWPCA) Pub. L. 92-500, as amended by Pub. L. 95-217, 33 U.S.C. 1251, *et seq.*

(b) The terms *aquatic environment* and *aquatic ecosystem* mean waters of the United States, including wetlands, that serve as habitat for interrelated and interacting communities and populations of plants and animals.


(c) The term *carrier of contaminant* means dredged or fill material that contains contaminants.


(d) The term *contaminant* means a chemical or biological substance in a form that can be incorporated into, onto or be ingested by and that harms aquatic organisms, consumers of aquatic organisms, or users of the aquatic environment, and includes but is not limited to the substances on the 307(a)(1) list of toxic pollutants promulgated on January 31, 1978 (43 FR 4109).


(e) The term *discharge point* means the point within the disposal site at which the dredged or fill material is released.


(f) The term *disposal site* means that portion of the “waters of the United States” where specific disposal activities are permitted and consist of a bottom surface area and any overlying volume of water. In the case of wetlands on which surface water is not present, the disposal site consists of the wetland surface area.


(g) The term *extraction site* means the place from which the dredged or fill material proposed for discharge is to be removed.


(h) The term *mixing zone* means a limited volume of water serving as a zone of initial dilution in the immediate vicinity of a discharge point where receiving water quality may not meet quality standards or other requirements otherwise applicable to the receiving water. The mixing zone should be considered as a place where wastes and water mix and not as a place where effluents are treated.


(i) The term *permitting authority* means the District Engineer of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers or such other individual as may be designated by the Secretary of the Army to issue or deny permits under section 404 of the Act; or the State Director of a permit program approved by EPA under section 404(g) and section 404(h) or his delegated representative.


(j) The term *pollutant* means dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials, radioactive materials not covered by the Atomic Energy Act, heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, and industrial, municipal, and agricultural waste discharged into water. The legislative history of the Act reflects that “radioactive materials” as included within the definition of “pollutant” in section 502 of the Act means only radioactive materials which are not encompassed in the definition of source, byproduct, or special nuclear materials as defined by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, and regulated under the Atomic Energy Act. Examples of radioactive materials not covered by the Atomic Energy Act and, therefore, included within the term “pollutant”, are radium and accelerator produced isotopes. See *Train* v. *Colorado Public Interest Research Group, Inc.,* 426 U.S. 1 (1976).


(k) The term *pollution* means the man-made or man-induced alteration of the chemical, physical, biological or radiological integrity of an aquatic ecosystem. 


(l) The term *practicable* means available and capable of being done after taking into consideration cost, existing technology, and logistics in light of overall project purposes.


(m) *Special aquatic sites* means those sites identified in subpart E. They are geographic areas, large or small, possessing special ecological characteristics of productivity, habitat, wildlife protection, or other important and easily disrupted ecological values. These areas are generally recognized as significantly influencing or positively contributing to the general overall environmental health or vitality of the entire ecosystem of a region. (See § 230.10(a)(3))


(n) The term *territorial sea* means the belt of the sea measured from the baseline as determined in accordance with the Convention on the Territorial Sea and the Contiguous Zone and extending seaward a distance of three miles.


(o) *Waters of the United States* means the term as it is defined in § 120.2 of this chapter.



---

[N] [45 FR 85344, Dec. 24, 1980, as amended at 58 FR 45037, Aug. 25, 1993; 80 FR 37115, June 29, 2015; 83 FR 5208, Feb. 6, 2018; 84 FR 56669, Oct. 22, 2019; 85 FR 22341, Apr. 21, 2020]




