# § 1.861-13   Special rules for characterization of controlled foreign corporation stock.

(a) *Methodology.* For purposes of allocating and apportioning deductions for purposes of section 904 as the operative section, stock in a controlled foreign corporation owned directly or indirectly through a partnership or other pass-through entity by a United States shareholder is characterized by the United States shareholder under the rules described in this section. In general, paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section characterize the stock of the controlled foreign corporation as an asset in the various statutory groupings and residual grouping based on the type of income that the stock of the controlled foreign corporation generates, has generated, or may reasonably be expected to generate when the income is included by the United States shareholder.


(1) *Step 1: Characterize stock as generating income in statutory groupings under the asset or modified gross income method*—(i) *Asset method.* A United States shareholder of a controlled foreign corporation that apportions its interest expense on the basis of assets must characterize stock of the controlled foreign corporation using the asset method described in § 1.861-12T(c)(3)(ii) to assign the assets of the controlled foreign corporation to the statutory groupings described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i)(A)(*1*) through (*10*) and (a)(1)(i)(B) of this section. If the controlled foreign corporation owns stock in a lower-tier noncontrolled 10-percent owned foreign corporation, the assets of the lower-tier noncontrolled 10-percent owned foreign corporation are assigned to a gross subpart F income grouping to the extent such assets generate income that, if distributed to the controlled foreign corporation, would be gross subpart F income of the controlled foreign corporation. *See also* § 1.861-12(c)(4).


(A) *General and passive categories.* Within each of the controlled foreign corporation's general category and passive category, each of the following subgroups within each category is a separate statutory grouping—


(*1*) Foreign source gross tested income;


(*2*) For each applicable treaty, U.S. source gross tested income that, when taken into account by a United States shareholder under section 951A, is resourced in the hands of the United States shareholder (*resourced gross tested income*);


(*3*) U.S. source gross tested income not described in paragraph (a)(1)(i)(A)(*2*) of this section;


(*4*) Foreign source gross subpart F income;


(*5*) For each applicable treaty, U.S. source gross subpart F income that, when included by a United States shareholder under section 951(a)(1), is resourced in the hands of the United States shareholder (*resourced gross subpart F income*);


(*6*) U.S. source gross subpart F income not described in paragraph (a)(1)(i)(A)(*5*) of this section;


(*7*) Foreign source gross section 245(a)(5) income;


(*8*) U.S. source gross section 245(a)(5) income;


(*9*) Any other foreign source gross income (*specified foreign source general category gross income* or *specified foreign source passive category gross income,* as the case may be); and


(*10*) Any other U.S. source gross income (*specified U.S. source general category gross income* or *specified U.S. source passive category gross income,* as the case may be).


(B) *Section 901(j) income.* For each country described in section 901(j), all gross income from sources in that country.


(ii) *Modified gross income method.* A United States shareholder of a controlled foreign corporation that apportions its interest expense on the basis of modified gross income must characterize stock of the controlled foreign corporation using the modified gross income method under § 1.861-12(c)(3)(iii) to assign the modified gross income of the controlled foreign corporation to the statutory groupings described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i)(A)(*1*) through (*10*) and (a)(1)(i)(B) of this section. For purposes of this paragraph (a)(1)(ii), the rules described in §§ 1.861-12(c)(3)(iii) and 1.861-9T(j)(2) apply to combine gross income in a statutory grouping that is earned by the controlled foreign corporation with gross income of lower-tier controlled foreign corporations that is in the same statutory grouping. For example, foreign source general category gross tested income (net of interest expense) earned by the controlled foreign corporation is combined with its pro rata share of the foreign source general category gross tested income (net of interest expense) of lower-tier controlled foreign corporations. If the controlled foreign corporation owns stock in a lower-tier noncontrolled 10-percent owned foreign corporation, gross income of the lower-tier noncontrolled 10-percent owned foreign corporation is assigned to a gross subpart F income grouping to the extent that the income, if distributed to the upper-tier controlled foreign corporation, would be gross subpart F income of the upper-tier controlled foreign corporation. *See also* § 1.861-12(c)(4).


(2) *Step 2: Assign stock to the section 951A category.* A controlled foreign corporation is not treated as earning section 951A category income. The portion of the value of the stock of the controlled foreign corporation that is assigned to the section 951A category (as defined in § 1.904-4(g)) equals the value of the portion of the stock of the controlled foreign corporation that is assigned to the foreign source gross tested income statutory groupings within the general category (*general category gross tested income stock*) multiplied by the United States shareholder's inclusion percentage. Under § 1.861-8(d)(2)(ii)(C)(*2*)(*ii*), a portion of the value of stock assigned to the section 951A category may be treated as an exempt asset. The portion of the general category gross tested income stock that is not characterized as a section 951A category asset remains a general category asset and may result in expenses being disregarded under section 904(b)(4). *See* paragraph (a)(5)(ii) of this section and § 1.904(b)-3. No portion of the passive category gross tested income stock or U.S. source gross tested income stock is assigned to the section 951A category.


(3) *Step 3: Assign stock to a treaty category*—(i) *Inclusions under section 951A(a).* The portion of the value of the stock of the controlled foreign corporation that is assigned to a particular treaty category due to an inclusion of U.S. source income under section 951A(a) that was resourced under a particular treaty equals the value of the portion of the stock of the controlled foreign corporation that is assigned to the resourced gross tested income statutory grouping within each of the controlled foreign corporation's general or passive categories (*resourced gross tested income stock*) multiplied by the United States shareholder's inclusion percentage. Under § 1.861-8(d)(2)(ii)(C)(*2*)(*ii*), a portion of the value of stock assigned to a particular treaty category by reason of this paragraph (a)(3)(i) may be treated as an exempt asset. The portion of the resourced gross tested income stock that is not characterized as a treaty category asset remains a U.S. source general or passive category asset, as the case may be, that is in the residual grouping and may result in expenses being disregarded under section 904(b)(4) for purposes of determining entire taxable income under section 904(a). *See* paragraph (a)(5)(iv) of this section and § 1.904(b)-3.


(ii) *Inclusions under section 951(a)(1).* The portion of the value of the stock of the controlled foreign corporation that is assigned to a particular treaty category due to an inclusion of U.S. source income under section 951(a)(1) that was resourced under a treaty equals the value of the portion of the stock of the controlled foreign corporation that is assigned to the resourced gross subpart F income statutory grouping within each of the controlled foreign corporation's general category or passive category.


(4) *Step 4: Aggregate stock within each separate category and assign stock to the residual grouping.* The portions of the value of stock of the controlled foreign corporation assigned to foreign source statutory groupings that were not specifically assigned to the section 951A category under paragraph (a)(2) of this section (Step 2) are aggregated within the general category and the passive category to characterize the stock as general category stock and passive category stock, respectively. The portions of the value of stock of the controlled foreign corporation assigned to U.S. source statutory groupings that were not specifically assigned to a particular treaty category under paragraph (a)(3) of this section (Step 3) are aggregated to characterize the stock as U.S. source category stock, which is in the residual grouping. Stock assigned to the separate category for income described in section 901(j)(1) remains in that category.


(5) *Step 5: Determine section 245A and non-section 245A subgroups for each separate category and U.S. source category*—(i) *In general.* In the case of stock of a controlled foreign corporation that is held directly or indirectly through a partnership or other pass-through entity by a United States shareholder that is a domestic corporation, stock of the controlled foreign corporation that is general category stock, passive category stock, and U.S. source category stock is subdivided between a section 245A subgroup and a non-section 245A subgroup under paragraphs (a)(5)(ii) through (v) of this section for purposes of applying section 904(b)(4) and § 1.904(b)-3(c). Each subgroup is treated as a statutory grouping under § 1.861-8(a)(4) for purposes of allocating and apportioning deductions under §§ 1.861-8 through 1.861-14T and 1.861-17 in applying section 904 as the operative section. Deductions apportioned to each section 245A subgroup are disregarded under section 904(b)(4). *See* § 1.904(b)-3. Deductions apportioned to the statutory groupings for gross section 245(a)(5) income are not disregarded under section 904(b)(4); however, a portion of the stock assigned to those groupings is treated as exempt under § 1.861-8T(d)(2)(ii)(B).


(ii) *Section 245A subgroup of general category stock.* The portion of the general category stock of the controlled foreign corporation that is assigned to the section 245A subgroup of the general category equals the value of the general category gross tested income stock of the controlled foreign corporation that is not assigned to the section 951A category under paragraph (a)(2) of this section (Step 2), plus the value of the portion of the stock of the controlled foreign corporation that is assigned to the specified foreign source general category gross income statutory grouping.


(iii) *Section 245A subgroup of passive category stock.* The portion of passive category stock of the controlled foreign corporation that is assigned to the section 245A subcategory of the passive category equals the sum of—


(A) The value of the portion of the stock of the controlled foreign corporation that is assigned to the gross tested income statutory grouping within foreign source passive category income multiplied by a percentage equal to 100 percent minus the United States shareholder's inclusion percentage for passive category gross tested income; and


(B) The value of the portion of the stock of the controlled foreign corporation that was assigned to the specified foreign source passive category gross income statutory grouping.


(iv) *Section 245A subgroup of U.S. source category stock.* The portion of U.S. source category stock of the controlled foreign corporation that is assigned to the section 245A subgroup of the U.S. source category equals the sum of—


(A) The value of the portion of the stock of the controlled foreign corporation that is assigned to the U.S. source general category gross tested income statutory grouping multiplied by a percentage equal to 100 percent minus the United States shareholder's inclusion percentage for the general category;


(B) The value of the portion of the stock of the controlled foreign corporation that is assigned to the U.S. source passive category gross tested income statutory grouping multiplied by a percentage equal to 100 percent minus the United States shareholder's inclusion percentage for the passive category;


(C) The value of the resourced gross tested income stock of the controlled foreign corporation that is not assigned to a particular treaty category under paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section (Step 3);


(D) The value of the portion of the stock of the controlled foreign corporation that is assigned to the specified U.S. source general category gross income statutory grouping; and


(E) The value of the portion of the stock of the controlled foreign corporation that is assigned to the specified U.S. source passive category gross income statutory grouping.


(v) *Non-section 245A subgroup.* The value of stock of a controlled foreign corporation that is not assigned to the section 245A subgroup within the general or passive category or the residual grouping is assigned to the non-section 245A subgroup within such category or grouping. The value of stock of a controlled foreign corporation that is assigned to the section 951A category, the separate category for income described in section 901(j)(1), or a particular treaty category is always assigned to a non-section 245A subgroup.


(b) *Definitions.* This paragraph (b) provides definitions that apply for purposes of this section.


(1) *Gross section 245(a)(5) income.* The term *gross section 245(a)(5) income* means all items of gross income described in section 245(a)(5)(A) and (B).


(2) *Gross subpart F income.* The term *gross subpart F income* means all items of gross income that are taken into account by a controlled foreign corporation in determining its subpart F income under section 952, except for items of gross income described in section 952(a)(5).


(3) *Gross tested income.* The term *gross tested income* has the meaning provided in § 1.951A-2(c)(1).


(4) *Inclusion percentage.* The term *inclusion percentage* has the meaning provided in § 1.960-2(c)(2).


(5) *Separate category.* The term *separate category* has the meaning provided in § 1.904-5(a)(4)(v).


(6) *Treaty category.* The term *treaty category* means a category of income earned by a controlled foreign corporation for which section 904(a), (b), and (c) are applied separately as a result of income being resourced under a treaty. See, for example, section 245(a)(10), 865(h), or 904(h)(10). A United States shareholder may have multiple treaty categories for amounts of income resourced by the United States shareholder under a treaty. *See* § 1.904-5(m)(7).


(7) *U.S. source category.* The term *U.S. source category* means the aggregate of U.S. source income in each separate category listed in section 904(d)(1).


(c) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the application of the rules in this section.


(1) *Example 1: Asset method*—(i) *Facts*—(A) USP, a domestic corporation, directly owns all of the stock of a controlled foreign corporation, CFC1. The tax book value of CFC1's stock is $20,000x. USP uses the asset method described in § 1.861-12T(c)(3)(ii) to characterize the stock of CFC1. USP's inclusion percentage is 70%.


(B) CFC1 owns the following assets with the following values as determined under §§ 1.861-9(g)(2) and 1.861-9T(g)(3): Assets that generate income described in the foreign source gross tested income statutory grouping within the general category ($4,000x), assets that generate income described in the foreign source gross subpart F income statutory grouping within the general category ($1,000x), assets that generate specified foreign source general category gross income ($3,000x), and assets that generate income described in the foreign source gross subpart F income statutory grouping within the passive category ($2,000x).


(C) CFC1 also owns all of the stock of CFC2, a controlled foreign corporation. The tax book value of CFC1's stock in CFC2 is $6,000x. CFC2 owns the following assets with the following values as determined under §§ 1.861-9(g)(2) and 1.861-9T(g)(3): Assets that generate income described in the foreign source gross subpart F income statutory grouping within the general category ($2,250x) and assets that generate specified foreign source general category gross income ($750x).


(ii) *Analysis*—(A) *Step 1*—(*1*) *Characterization of CFC2 stock.* CFC2 has total assets of $3,000x, $2,250x of which are in the foreign source gross subpart F income statutory grouping within the general category and $750x of which are in the specified foreign source general category gross income statutory grouping. Accordingly, CFC2's stock is characterized as $4,500x ($2,250x/$3,000x × $6,000x) in the foreign source gross subpart F income statutory grouping within the general category and $1,500x ($750x/$3,000x × $6,000x) in the specified foreign source general category gross income statutory grouping.


(*2*) *Characterization of CFC1 stock.* CFC1 has total assets of $16,000x, $4,000x of which are in the foreign source gross tested income statutory grouping within the general category, $5,500x of which are in the foreign source gross subpart F income statutory grouping within the general category (including the portion of CFC2 stock assigned to that statutory grouping), $4,500x of which are in the specified foreign source gross general category income statutory grouping (including the portion of CFC2 stock assigned to that statutory grouping), and $2,000x of which are in the foreign source gross subpart F income statutory grouping within the passive category. Accordingly, CFC1's stock is characterized as $5,000x ($4,000x/$16,000x × $20,000x) in the foreign source gross tested income statutory grouping within the general category, $6,875x ($5,500x/$16,000x × $20,000x) in the foreign source gross subpart F income statutory grouping within the general category, $5,625x ($4,500x/$16,000x × $20,000x) in the specified foreign source gross general category income statutory grouping, and $2,500x ($2,000x/$16,000x × $20,000x) in the foreign source gross subpart F income statutory grouping within the passive category.


(B) *Step 2.* The value of the portion of the stock of CFC1 that is general category gross tested income stock is $5,000x. USP's inclusion percentage is 70%. Accordingly, under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, $3,500x of the stock of CFC1 is assigned to the section 951A category and a portion thereof may be treated as an exempt asset under § 1.861-8(d)(2)(ii)(C)(*2*)(*ii*). The remainder, $1,500x, remains a general category asset.


(C) *Step 3.* No portion of the stock of CFC1 is resourced gross tested income stock or assigned to the resourced gross subpart F income statutory grouping in any treaty category. Accordingly, no portion of the stock of CFC1 is assigned to a treaty category under paragraph (a)(3) of this section.


(D) *Step 4*—(*1*) *General category stock.* The total value of the portion of the stock of CFC1 that is general category stock is $14,000x, which is equal to $1,500x (the value of the portion of the general category stock of CFC1 that was not assigned to the section 951A category in paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(B) of this section (Step 2)) plus $6,875x (the value of the portion of the stock of CFC1 assigned to the foreign source gross subpart F income statutory grouping within the general category) plus $5,625x (the value of the portion of the stock of CFC1 assigned to the specified foreign source gross income statutory grouping within the general category).


(*2*) *Passive category stock.* The total value of the portion of the stock of CFC1 that is passive category stock is $2,500x.


(*3*) *U.S source category stock.* No value of the portion of the stock of CFC1 is U.S. source category stock.


(E) *Step 5*—(*1*) *General category stock.* Under paragraph (a)(5)(ii) of this section, the value of the portion of the stock of CFC1 assigned to the section 245A subgroup of general category stock is $7,125x, which is equal to $1,500x (the value of the portion of the general category stock of CFC1 that was not assigned to the section 951A category in paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(B) of this section (Step 2)) plus $5,625x (the value of the portion of the stock of CFC1 assigned to the specified foreign source general category gross income statutory grouping). Under paragraph (a)(5)(v) of this section, the remainder of the general category stock of CFC1, $6,875x, is assigned to the non-section 245A subgroup of general category stock.


(*2*) *Passive category stock.* No portion of the passive category stock of CFC1 is in the foreign source gross tested income statutory grouping or the specified foreign source passive category gross income statutory grouping. Accordingly, under paragraph (a)(5)(iii) of this section, no value of the portion of the stock of CFC1 is assigned to the section 245A subgroup of passive category stock. Under paragraph (a)(5)(v) of this section, the passive category stock of CFC1, $2,500x is assigned to the non-section 245A subgroup of passive category stock.


(*3*) *Section 951A category stock.* Under paragraph (a)(5)(v) of this section, all of the section 951A category stock, $3,500x, is assigned to the non-section 245A subgroup of section 951A category stock.


(F) *Summary.* For purpose of the allocation and apportionment of expenses, $14,000x of the stock of CFC1 is characterized as general category stock, $7,125x of which is in the section 245A subgroup and $6,875x of which is in the non-section 245A subgroup; $2,500x of the stock of CFC1 is characterized as passive category stock, all of which is in the non-section 245A subgroup; and $3,500x of the stock of CFC1 is characterized as section 951A category stock, all of which is in the non-section 245A subgroup.


(2) *Example 2: Asset method with noncontrolled 10-percent owned foreign corporation*—(i) *Facts.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section (the facts in *Example 1*), except that CFC1 does not own CFC2 and instead owns 20% of the stock of FC2, a foreign corporation that is a noncontrolled 10-percent owned foreign corporation. The tax book value of CFC1's stock in FC2 is $6,000x. FC2 owns assets with the following values as determined under §§ 1.861-9(g)(2) and 1.861-9T(g)(3): Assets that generate specified foreign source general category gross income ($3,000x). All of the assets of FC2 generate income that, if distributed to CFC1 as a dividend, would be foreign source gross subpart F income in the general category to CFC1.


(ii) *Analysis*—(A) *Step 1*—(*1*) *Characterization of FC2 stock.* All of the assets of FC2 generate income that, if distributed to CFC1, would be foreign source gross subpart F income in the general category to CFC1. Accordingly, under paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, all of CFC1's stock in FC2 ($6,000x) is characterized as in the foreign source gross subpart F income statutory grouping within the general category.


(*2*) *Characterization of CFC1 stock.* CFC1 has total assets of $16,000x, $4,000x of which are in the foreign source gross tested income statutory grouping within the general category, $7,000x of which are in the foreign source gross subpart F income statutory grouping within the general category (including the FC2 stock assigned to that statutory grouping), $3,000x of which are in the specified foreign source general category gross income statutory grouping, and $2,000x of which are in the foreign source gross subpart F income statutory grouping within the passive category. Accordingly, CFC1's stock is characterized as $5,000x ($4,000x/$16,000x × $20,000x) in the foreign source gross tested income statutory grouping within the general category, $8,750x ($7,000x/$16,000x × $20,000x) in the foreign source gross subpart F income statutory grouping within the general category, $3,750x ($3,000x/$16,000x × $20,000x) in the specified foreign source general category gross income statutory grouping, and $2,500x ($2,000x/$16,000x × $20,000x) in the foreign source gross subpart F income statutory grouping within the passive category.


(B) *Step 2.* The analysis is the same as in paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(B) of this section (the analysis of Step 2 in *Example 1*).


(C) *Step 3.* The analysis is the same as in paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(C) of this section (the analysis of Step 3 in *Example 1*).


(D) *Step 4*—(*1*) *General category stock.* The total value of the portion of the stock of CFC1 that is general category stock is $14,000x, which is equal to $1,500x (the value of the portion of the general category stock of CFC1 that was not assigned to the section 951A category in paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(B) of this section (Step 2)) plus $3,750x (the value of the portion of the stock of CFC1 assigned to the specified foreign source gross income statutory grouping within the general category general category) plus $8,750x (the value of the portion of the stock of CFC1 assigned to the foreign source gross subpart F income statutory grouping within the general category).


(*2*) *Passive category stock.* The analysis is the same as in paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(D)(*2*) of this section (the analysis of Step 4 in *Example 1*).


(E) *Step 5*—(*1*) *General category stock.* Under paragraph (a)(5)(ii) of this section, the value of the stock of CFC1 assigned to the section 245A subgroup of general category stock is $5,250x, which is equal to $1,500x (the value of the portion of the general category stock of CFC1 that was not assigned to the section 951A category in paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(B) of this section (Step 2)) plus $3,750x (the value of the portion of the stock of CFC1 assigned to the specified foreign source general category gross income statutory grouping). Under paragraph (a)(5)(v) of this section, the remainder of the general category stock of CFC1, $8,750x, is assigned to the non-section 245A subgroup of general category stock.


(*2*) *Passive category stock.* The analysis is the same as in paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(E)(*2*) of this section (the analysis of Step 5 in *Example 1*).


(*3*) *Section 951A category stock.* The analysis is the same as in paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(E)(*3*) of this section (the analysis of Step 5 in *Example 1*).


(F) *Summary.* For purpose of the allocation and apportionment of expenses, $14,000x of the stock of CFC1 is characterized as general category stock, $5,250x of which is in the section 245A subgroup and $8,750x of which is in the non-section 245A subgroup; $2,500x of the stock of CFC1 is characterized as passive category stock, all of which is in the non-section 245A subgroup; and $3,500x of the stock of CFC1 is characterized as section 951A category stock, all of which is in the non-section 245A subgroup.


(3) *Example 3: Modified gross income method*—(i) *Facts*—(A) USP, a domestic corporation, directly owns all of the stock of a controlled foreign corporation, CFC1. The tax book value of CFC1's stock is $100,000x. CFC1 owns all of the stock of CFC2, a controlled foreign corporation. USP uses the modified gross income method described in § 1.861-12(c)(3)(iii) to characterize the stock in CFC1. USP's inclusion percentage is 100%.


(B) CFC1 earns $1,500x of foreign source gross tested income within the general category and $500x of foreign source gross subpart F income within the passive category. CFC1 incurs $1,000x of interest expense.


(C) CFC2 earns $3,000x of foreign source gross tested income within the general category, $2,000x of foreign source gross subpart F income within the general category, and $1,000x of specified foreign source general category gross income. CFC2 incurs $3,000x of interest expense.


(ii) *Analysis*—(A) *Step 1*—(*1*) *Determination of CFC2 gross income (net of interest expense).* CFC2 has total gross income of $6,000x. CFC2's $3,000x of interest expense is apportioned among the statutory groupings of gross income based on the gross income of CFC2 to determine the gross income (net of interest expense) of CFC2 in each statutory grouping. As a result, $1,500x ($3,000x/$6,000x × $3,000x) of interest expense is apportioned to foreign source gross tested income within the general category, $1,000x ($2,000x/$6,000x × $3,000x) of interest expense is apportioned to foreign source gross subpart F income within the general category, and $500x ($1,000x/$6,000x × $3,000x) of interest expense is apportioned to specified foreign source general category gross income. Accordingly, CFC2 has the following amounts of gross income (net of interest expense): $1,500x ($3,000x − $1,500x) of foreign source gross tested income within the general category, $1,000x ($2,000x − $1,000x) of foreign source gross subpart F income within the general category, and $500x ($1,000x − $500x) of specified foreign source general category gross income.


(*2*) *Determination of CFC1 gross income (net of interest expense).* Before including the gross income consisting of subpart F income (net of interest expense) of CFC2, CFC1 has total gross income of $4,000x, including $1500x of CFC2's foreign source gross tested income within the general category and $500x of CFC2's specified foreign source general category gross income which are combined with CFC1's items of gross income under § 1.861-9(j)(2)(ii). CFC1's $1,000x of interest expense is apportioned among the statutory groupings of gross income of CFC1 to determine the gross income (net of interest expense) of CFC1 in each statutory grouping. As a result, $750x ($3,000x/$4,000x × $1,000x) of interest expense is apportioned to foreign source gross tested income within the general category, $125x ($500x/$4,000 × $1,000x) to foreign source gross subpart F income within the passive category, and $125x ($500x/$4,000x × $1,000x) to specified foreign source general category gross income. Accordingly, CFC1 has the following amounts of gross income (net of interest expense) before including the gross income consisting of subpart F income (net of interest expense) of CFC2: $2,250x ($3,000x − $750x) of foreign source gross tested income within the general category, $375x ($500x − $125x) of foreign source gross subpart F income within the passive category, and $375x ($500 − $125x) of specified foreign source general category gross income. After including the gross income consisting of subpart F income (net of interest expense) of CFC2, CFC1 has the following amounts of gross income (net of interest expense): $2,250x of foreign source gross tested income within the general category, $1,000x of foreign source gross subpart F income within the general category, $375x of specified foreign source general category gross income, and $375x of foreign source gross subpart F income within the passive category.


(*3*) *Characterization of CFC1 stock.* CFC1 is considered to have a total of $4,000x of gross income (net of interest expense) for purposes of characterizing the stock of CFC1. Accordingly, CFC1's stock is characterized as $56,250x ($2,250x/$4,000x × $100,000x) in the foreign source gross tested income statutory grouping within the general category, $25,000x ($1,000x/$4,000x × $100,000x) in the foreign source gross subpart F income statutory grouping within the general category, $9,375x ($375x/$4,000x × $100,000x) in the specified foreign source general category gross income statutory grouping, and $9,375x ($375x/$4,000x × $100,000x) in the foreign source gross subpart F income statutory grouping within the passive category.


(B) *Step 2.* The value of the portion of the stock of CFC1 that is general category gross tested income stock is $56,250x. USP's inclusion percentage is 100%. Accordingly, under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, all of the $56,250x of the stock of CFC1 is assigned to the section 951A category and a portion thereof may be treated as an exempt asset under § 1.861-8(d)(2)(ii)(C)(*2*)(*ii*).


(C) *Step 3.* No portion of the stock of CFC1 is resourced gross tested income or assigned to the resourced gross subpart F income statutory group in any treaty category. Accordingly, no portion of the stock of CFC1 is assigned to a treaty category under paragraph (a)(3) of this section.


(D) *Step 4*—(*1*) *General category stock.* The total value of the portion of the stock of CFC1 that is general category stock is $34,375x, which is equal to $25,000x (the value of the portion of the stock of CFC1 assigned to the subpart F income statutory grouping within the general category income statutory grouping) plus $9,375x (the value of the portion of the stock of CFC1 assigned to the specified foreign source general category gross income statutory grouping).


(*2*) *Passive category stock.* The total value of the portion of the stock of CFC1 that is passive category stock is $9,375x.


(*3*) *U.S. source category stock.* No value of the portion of the stock of CFC1 is U.S. source category stock.


(E) *Step 5*—(*1*) *General category stock.* All of the value of the general category gross tested income stock of CFC1 was assigned to the section 951A category in paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(B) of this section (Step 2). Accordingly, under paragraph (a)(5)(ii) of this section, the value of the stock of CFC1 assigned to the section 245A subgroup of general category stock is $9,375x, which is equal to the value of the portion assigned to the specified foreign source general category gross income statutory grouping. Under paragraph (a)(5)(v) of this section, the remainder of the general category stock of CFC1, $25,000x, is assigned to the non-section 245A subgroup of general category stock.


(*2*) *Passive category stock.* No portion of the passive category stock of CFC1 is in the foreign source gross tested income statutory grouping or the specified foreign source passive category gross income statutory grouping. Accordingly, under paragraph (a)(5)(iii) of this section, no value of the portion of the stock of CFC1 is assigned to the section 245A subgroup. Under paragraph (a)(5)(v) of this section, the passive category stock of CFC1, $9,375x, is assigned to the non-section 245A subgroup of passive category stock.


(*3*) *Section 951A category stock.* Under paragraph (a)(5)(v) of this section, all of the section 951A category stock, $56,250x, is assigned to the non-section 245A subgroup of section 951A category stock.


(F) *Summary.* For purposes of the allocation and apportionment of expenses, $56,250x of the stock of CFC1 is characterized as section 951A category stock, all of which is in the non-section 245A subgroup; $34,375x of the stock of CFC1 is characterized as general category stock, $9,375x of which is in the section 245A subgroup and $25,000x of which is in the non-section 245A subgroup; and $9,375x of the stock of CFC1 is characterized as passive category stock, all of which is in the non-section 245A subgroup.


(d) *Applicability dates.* This section applies for taxable years that both begin after December 31, 2017, and end on or after December 4, 2018.



---

[N] [T.D. 9882, 84 FR 69070, Dec. 17, 2019]








