# § 238.133   Exterior side door safety systems—all passenger cars and locomotives used in a passenger service.

(a) *By-pass device verification*—(1) *Visual inspection.* Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(2) and (3) of this section, a member of the crew of each passenger train must verify by observation that all door by-pass devices that can affect the safe operation of the train are sealed in the normal (non-by-pass) position when taking control of the train.


(2) *Functional test.* Instead of a visual inspection of the door by-pass devices, the railroad may develop a plan to perform a functional test to determine that the door summary status indicator is functioning as intended. The functional test plan shall be made available for inspection by FRA.


(3) *Face-to-face relief.* Crewmembers taking control of a train do not need to perform either a visual inspection or a functional test of the door by-pass devices in cases of face-to-face relief of another train crew and notification by that crew as to the functioning of the door by-pass devices.


(b) *Unsealed door by-pass device.* A crewmember must notify the railroad's designated authority pursuant to the railroad's defect reporting system if a door by-pass device that could affect the safe operation of the train is found unsealed during the train's daily operation. If the train crew can test the door safety system and determine that the door summary status indicator is functioning as intended, the train may travel in service until the next forward repair point where a seal can be applied by a qualified maintenance person (QMP) or until its next calendar day inspection, whichever occurs first; if not, the train crew must follow the procedures outlined in paragraph (c) of this section.


(c) *En route failure.* If it becomes necessary to activate a door by-pass device, the train may continue to its destination terminal, provided that the train crew conducts a safety briefing that includes a description of the location(s) where crewmembers will position themselves on the train in order to observe the boarding and alighting of passengers, notifies the railroad's designated authority that the train's door by-pass device has been activated, and adheres to the operating rules required by § 238.135. After the train has reached its destination terminal, the train may continue in passenger service until its arrival at the next forward repair point or its next calendar day inspection, whichever occurs first, provided that prior to movement of equipment with a door by-pass device activated:


(1) An on-site QMP shall determine that repairs cannot be made at the time and it is safe to move the equipment in passenger service. If a QMP is not available on site, these determinations may be made based upon a description of the condition provided by an on-site qualified person (QP) to a QMP offsite; and


(2) The QP or QMP shall notify the crewmember in charge of the movement of the train that the door by-pass device has been activated. The train crew must then hold a safety briefing that includes information such as the locations where each crewmember will position himself or herself on the train to ensure that passengers board and alight from the train safely.


(d) *Records.* The railroad shall maintain a record of each door by-pass activation and each unintended opening of a powered exterior side door, including any repair(s) made, in the defect tracking system as required by § 238.19.


(e) *Door control panels.* Exterior side doors shall not be capable of operation from a door control panel when the key or other similar device is removed.


(f) *End-of-train circuit.* End-of-train circuit integrity shall be maintained. When switches are used to establish the end-of-train circuit, the switches shall be secured in a manner to prevent access by unauthorized personnel.


(g) *Exterior side door safety system override devices.* (1) Exterior side door safety system override devices that can adversely affect the train's door safety system must be inactive and sealed in all passenger cars and locomotives in the train consist, including cab cars and MU locomotives, if they are so equipped.


(2) As part of the equipment's calendar day inspection, all exterior side door safety system override devices must be inactive and sealed in all passenger cars and all locomotives in the train consist, including cab cars and MU locomotives, if they are so equipped.



---

[N] [80 FR 76147, Dec. 7, 2015]




