# ยง 15.11   Persons with a need to know.

(a) *In general.* A person has a need to know SSI in each of the following circumstances:


(1) When the person requires access to specific SSI to carry out transportation security activities approved, accepted, funded, recommended, or directed by DHS or DOT.


(2) When the person is in training to carry out transportation security activities approved, accepted, funded, recommended, or directed by DHS or DOT.


(3) When the information is necessary for the person to supervise or otherwise manage individuals carrying out transportation security activities approved, accepted, funded, recommended, or directed by the DHS or DOT.


(4) When the person needs the information to provide technical or legal advice to a covered person regarding transportation security requirements of Federal law.


(5) When the person needs the information to represent a covered person in connection with any judicial or administrative proceeding regarding those requirements.


(b) *Federal employees, contractors, and grantees.* (1) A Federal employee has a need to know SSI if access to the information is necessary for performance of the employee's official duties.


(2) A person acting in the performance of a contract with or grant from DHS or DOT has a need to know SSI if access to the information is necessary to performance of the contract or grant.


(c) *Background check.* The Secretary of DOT may make an individual's access to the SSI contingent upon satisfactory completion of a security background check and the imposition of procedures and requirements for safeguarding SSI that are satisfactory to the Secretary.


(d) *Need to know further limited by the DHS or DOT.* For some specific SSI, DHS or DOT may make a finding that only specific persons or classes of persons have a need to know.



---

[N] [69 FR 28078, May 18, 2004, as amended at 70 FR 1381, Jan. 7, 2005]




