# § 165.14   Other Federal agency requests for investigations.

(a) *Requests for investigations.* Any other Federal agency, including but not limited to the Department of Commerce or the United States International Trade Commission, may request an investigation under this part. CBP will initiate an investigation if the Federal agency has provided information that reasonably suggests that an importer has entered covered merchandise into the customs territory of the United States through evasion, unless the agency submits a request to withdraw to the designated email address specified by CBP or through any other method approved or designated by CBP.


(b) *Contents of requests.* The following information must be included in the request for an investigation:


(1) Name of importer against whom the allegation is brought;


(2) Description of the covered merchandise;


(3) Applicable AD/CVD orders;


(4) Information that reasonably suggests that an importer has entered covered merchandise into the customs territory of the United States through evasion;


(5) Identification of a point of contact at the agency; and


(6) Notification of any knowledge of or reason to suspect that the covered merchandise poses any health or safety risk to U.S. consumers.


(c) *Receipt of requests.* Requests for an investigation must be filed electronically via CBP's online e-Allegations system or through any other method approved or designated by CBP. The date of receipt is the date that CBP transmits notice of the assigned control number to the Federal agency that filed the request.


(d) *Notice of release of information*—(1) *Public information.* CBP will treat the information required by paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section as public information.


(2) *Business confidential treatment.* CBP will create a public summary of the information required by paragraphs (b)(4) and (6) of this section.


(e) *Access to investigation.* The Federal agency is not a party to the investigation. Therefore, it will neither receive official notice of developments after CBP's receipt of the request for an investigation nor will it receive service of any documents filed by interested parties. Only the parties to the investigation will be entitled to notice and service, as well as the related rights to administrative review and judicial review.



---

[N] [81 FR 56482, Aug. 22, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 19259, Mar. 18, 2024]








