# § 31.6302(c)-1   Use of Government depositories in connection with taxes under Federal Insurance Contributions Act and income tax withheld for amounts attributable to payments made before January 1, 1993.

(a) *Requirement for calendar months beginning after December 31, 1980, but before January 1, 1993*—(1) *In general.* (i) In the case of a calendar month which begins after December 31, 1980, but before April 1, 1991—


(*a*) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section and hereinafter in this subdivision (i), if at the close of any calendar month the aggregate amount of undeposited taxes (as defined in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section) is $500 or more, the employer shall deposit the undeposited taxes in a Federal Reserve bank or authorized financial institution (see paragraph (a)(3)(iii) of this section) within 15 calendar days after the close of such calendar month.


(*b*) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section and except in the case of first-time 3-banking-day depositors, if at the close of any eighth-monthly period the aggregate amount of undeposited taxes is $3,000 or more, the employer shall deposit the undeposited taxes in a Federal Reserve bank or authorized financial institution within 3 banking days after the close of such eighth-monthly period. For purposes of determining the amount of undeposited taxes at the close of an eighth-monthly period, undeposited taxes with respect to wages paid during a prior eighth-monthly period shall not be taken into account if the employer has made a deposit with respect to such prior eighth-monthly period. An employer will be considered to have complied with the requirements of this paragraph (a)(1)(i)(*b*) for a deposit with respect to the close of an eighth-monthly period if—


(*1*) His deposit is not less than 95 percent (90 percent before January 1, 1982) of the aggregate amount of the taxes with respect to wages paid during the period for which the deposit is made, and


(*2*) If such eighth-monthly period occurs in a month other than the last month of a period for which a return is required to be filed (hereinafter in this subparagraph referred to as a return period), he deposits any underpayment with his first deposit which is otherwise required by this paragraph (a)(1)(i)(*b*) to be made after the 15th day of the following month.


(*c*) The periods within which taxes must be desposited under this section are determined, in the case of employers paying advance earned income credit amounts, by reference to the amount of taxes required to be deposited after reduction for advance amounts paid to employees.


(ii) In the case of a calendar month which begins after March 31, 1991, but before January 1, 1993—


(*a*) Except as provided in § 31.6302(c)-1(a)(1)(ii) (*b*) or (*c*), or § 31.6302(c)-1(b), if with respect to any calendar month the aggregate amount of taxes (as defined in § 31.6302(c)-1(a)(1)(iii)) accumulated with respect to wages paid is $500 or more, but less than $3,000, then the employer shall deposit that aggregate amount in a Federal Reserve bank or authorized financial institution within 15 calendar days after the close of that calendar month. Taxes accumulated with respect to wages paid in a prior calendar month within the same return period shall not be taken into account in determining the aggregate amount of taxes accumulated if a deposit was required to be made under this section with respect to such tax amounts. Deposits made during the calendar month of taxes with respect to wages paid during that month do not reduce the aggregate amount of taxes accumulated for purposes of determining the deposit requirement (if any) for that month. However, this paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(*a*) shall not apply if the employer was required to make a deposit of taxes pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(*b*) of this section with respect to an eighth-month period which occurred during the calendar month.


(*b*) Except as provided in § 31.6302(c)-1(a)(1)(ii)(*c*) or § 31.6302(c)-1(b), and except in the case of first-time 3-banking-day depositors (as defined in § 31.6302(c)-1(a)(1)(i)(*b*)(*2*)), if with respect to any eighth-monthly period (as defined in § 31.6302(c)-1(a)(1)(i)(*b*)) the aggregate amount of taxes accumulated with respect to wages paid is $3,000 or more, but less than $100,000, the employer shall deposit that aggregate amount in a Federal Reserve bank or authorized financial institution within 3 banking days after the close of that eighth-monthly period. Taxes accumulated with respect to wages paid during a prior eighth-monthly period shall not be taken into account if a deposit was required to be made under this section with respect to such tax amounts. Deposits made during the eighth-monthly period of taxes with respect to wages paid during that eighth-monthly period do not reduce the aggregate amount of taxes accumulated for purposes of determining the deposit requirement (if any) for that eighth-monthly period. Solely for purposes of the examples in this paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(*b*) and paragraphs (a)(1)(ii)(*c*), (*d*), and (*f*) of this section, “banking days” are assumed to include all calendar days except Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays.


(*c*) If on any day within an eighth-monthly period the aggregate amount of taxes accumulated with respect to wages paid is $100,000 or more, the employer shall deposit that aggregate amount in a Federal Reserve bank or authorized financial institution on the first banking day after that day. Taxes accumulated with respect to wages paid prior to that day shall not be taken into account if a deposit was required under this section with respect to such tax amounts. Taxes deposited on any given day with respect to wages paid on that day do not reduce the aggregate amount of taxes accumulated on that day for purposes of determining the deposit requirement (if any) for that day.


(*d*) If, with respect to any eighth-monthly period, an employer incurs an obligation to deposit in accordance with § 31.6302(c)-1(a)(1)(ii)(*c*), and later, within the same eighth-monthly period, accumulates with respect to wages paid taxes of $3,000 or more, but less than $100,000, an additional deposit is required in accordance with § 31.6302(c)-1(a)(1)(ii)(*b*). However, if the amount of taxes is $100,000 or more, an additional deposit is required in accordance with § 31.6302(c)-1(a)(1)(ii)(*c*).


(*e*) An employer will be considered to have satisfied the deposit obligation imposed by paragraphs (a)(1)(ii) (*b*), (*c*) and (*d*) of this section if—


(*1*) The deposit that is made is not less than 95 percent of the aggregate amount of taxes accumulated with respect to wages paid during the period for which the deposit is made, and


(*2*) If the eighth-monthly period (or, in the case of a deposit required under paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(*c*) of this section, the day on which the obligation arose) is in a month other than the last month of the return period, the employer deposits any remaining amount due with the first deposit otherwise required to be made after the fifteenth day of the following month. In the case of the last month of the return period, see § 31.6302(c)-1(a)(1)(iv).


(*f*) Any excess of a deposit over the actual taxes required to be deposited to date (overdeposit) during the return period shall be applied in order of time to each of the employer's succeeding deposit obligations within the same return period. In the determination of the aggregate amount of taxes accumulated with respect to wages paid in succeeding deposit periods, the overdeposit does not reduce the aggregate amount accumulated although the overdeposit is credited to the depositor's account.


(*g*) The periods within which taxes must be deposited under this section are determined, in the case of employers paying advance earned income credit amounts, by reference to the amount of taxes required to be deposited after reduction for advance amounts paid to employees.


(*h*) For purposes of this paragraph (a)(1)(ii), the term “wages paid” includes all amounts included in wages, e.g., under section 3121(v) of the Code, regardless of whether they have actually been paid.


(iii) As used in subdivisions (i) and (ii) of this subparagraph, the term “taxes” means—


(*a*) The employee tax withheld under section 3102,


(*b*) The employer tax under section 3111, and


(*c*) The income tax withheld under section 3402, including amounts withheld with respect to qualified State individual income taxes,


(iv) If the aggregate amount of taxes reportable on a return (other than a return on Form 942) for a return period exceeds the total amount deposited by the employer pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) (i) or (ii) of this section for such return period (*a*) by $500 or more in the case of a return period which ends after December 31, 1980, or (*b*) by more than $200 in the case of a return period which ends after December 31, 1970, and before January 1, 1981, the employer shall, on or before the last day of the first calendar month following the return period, deposit with a Federal Reserve bank or authorized financial institution an amount equal to the amount by which the taxes reportable on the return exceed the total deposits (if any) made pursuant to subdivision (i) or (ii) of this subparagraph for such period. As used in this subdivision, the term “taxes” shall have the meaning assigned to such term in subdivision (iii) of this subparagraph, except that the term shall include the taxes referred to in (*a*), (*b*), and (*c*) of such subdivision (iii) of this subparagraph with respect to any wages for domestic service in a private home of the employer which the employer elects to report on a quarterly return other than a quarterly return made on Form 942.


(v) If the aggregate amount of taxes reportable on Form CT-1, the return relating to an employer's railroad retirement tax payments, for a return period exceeds the total amount deposited by the employer pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section for such return period by $100 or more, the employer shall, on or before the last day of the second calendar month following the return period, deposit with a Federal Reserve bank or authorized financial institution an amount equal to the amount by which the taxes reportable on Form CT-1 exceed the total deposits (if any) of such taxes made pursuant to subdivision (i) of this subparagraph for such period.


(2) *Depositary forms*—(i) *In general.* A deposit required to be made by this section shall be made separately from a deposit required by any other section. An employer may make one, or more than one, remittance of the amount required to be deposited. However, a deposit for a period in one calendar quarter shall be made separately from any deposit for a period in another calendar quarter. An amount of tax which is not required to be deposited may nevertheless be deposited if the employer so desires.


(ii) *Deposits.* Each remittance of amounts required to be deposited under paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall be accompanied by a Federal Tax Deposit form. Such form shall be prepared in accordance with the instructions applicable thereto. The remittance, together with the Federal Tax Deposit form, shall be forwarded to a financial institution authorized as a depositary for Federal taxes in accordance with 31 CFR Part 214 or, at the election of the employer, to a Federal Reserve bank. For procedures governing the deposit of Federal taxes at a Federal Reserve bank, see 31 CFR Part 214.7. The timeliness of the deposit will be determined by the date stamped on the Federal Tax Deposit form by the Federal Reserve bank or the authorized financial institution or, if section 7502(e) applies, by the date the deposit is treated as received under section 7502(e). Each employer making deposits under this section shall report on the return, for the period with respect to which such deposits are made, information regarding such deposits according to the instructions that apply to such return and pay at that time (or deposit by the due date of such return) the balance, if any, of the taxes due for such period.


(iii) *Time deemed paid.* In general, amounts deposited under subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph shall be considered as paid on the last day prescribed for filing the return in respect of such tax (determined without regard to any extension of time for filing such return), or at the time deposited, whichever is later. For purposes of section 6511 and the regulations thereunder, relating to period of limitation on credit or refund, if an amount is so deposited prior to April 15th of a calendar year immediately succeeding the calendar year which contains the period for which such amount was so deposited, such amount shall be considered as paid on such April 15th.


(3) *Procurement of prescribed form.* Copies of the Federal Tax Deposit form will so far as possible be furnished employers. An employer will not be excused from making a deposit, however, by the fact that no form has been furnished to it. An employer not supplied with the Federal Tax Deposit form should make application therefor in ample time to make the required deposits within the time prescribed. The employer may secure the form or additional forms by application therefor; such application shall supply the employer's name, identification number, address, and the taxable period to which the deposits will relate.


(b) *Exceptions*—(1) *Monthly returns.* The provisions of this section are not applicable with respect to taxes for the month in which the employer receives notice that returns are required under § 31.6011(a)-5 (or for any subsequent month for which such a return is required), if those taxes are also required to be deposited under the separate accounting procedures provided in § 301.7512-1 of this chapter (Regulations on Procedure and Administration) (which procedures are applicable if notification is given of failure to comply with certain employment tax requirements). In cases in which a monthly return is required under § 31.6011(a)-5 but the taxes are not required to be deposited under the separate accounting procedures provided in § 301.7512-1, the provisions of this section shall apply except that paragraph (a)(1)(iv) shall not authorize the deferral of any deposit to a date after the date on which the return is required to be filed.


(2) *Wages paid in nonconvertible foreign currency.* The provisions of this section are not applicable with respect to taxes paid in nonconvertible foreign currency pursuant to § 301.6316-7 of this chapter (Regulations on Procedure and Administration).



---

[N] [T.D. 6516, 25 FR 13032, Dec. 20, 1960]


