# ยง 683.700   When can the Secretary impose sanctions and corrective actions on recipients and subrecipients of title I Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act funds?

(a) *Applicability.* (1) Except for actions under WIOA secs. 116 and 188(a) or 29 CFR parts 31, 32, 35, and 38 and 49 CFR part 25, the Grant Officer must use the procedures outlined in ยง 683.440 before imposing a sanction on, or requiring corrective action by, recipients of funds under title I of WIOA.


(2) To impose a sanction or corrective action for a violation of WIOA sec. 188(a) the Department will use the procedures set forth in 29 CFR part 38.


(3) To impose a sanction or corrective action for a violation of WIOA sec. 116 the Department will use the procedures set forth in part 677 of this chapter.


(b) *States.* When a Grant Officer determines that the Governor has not fulfilled its requirements under 2 CFR part 200, an audit, or a monitoring compliance review set forth at sec. 184(a)(4) of WIOA and ยง 683.410, or has not taken corrective action to remedy a violation as required by WIOA secs. 184(a)(5) and 184(b)(1), the Grant Officer must require the Governor to impose the necessary corrective actions set forth at WIOA secs. 184(a)(5) and 184(b)(1), or may require repayment of funds under WIOA sec. 184(c). If the Secretary determines it is necessary to protect the funds or ensure the proper operation of a program or activity, the Secretary may immediately suspend or terminate financial assistance in accordance with WIOA sec. 184(e).


(c) *Local areas.* If the Governor fails to promptly take the actions specified in WIOA sec. 184(b)(1) when it determines that a local area has failed to comply with the requirements described in ยง 683.720(a), and that the local area has not taken the necessary corrective action, the Grant Officer may impose such actions directly against the local area.


(d) *Direct grant recipients.* When the Grant Officer determines that a direct grant recipient of subtitle D of title I of WIOA has not taken corrective action to remedy a substantial violation as the result of noncompliance with 2 CFR part 200, the Grant Officer may impose sanctions against the grant recipient.


(e) *Subrecipients.* The Grant Officer may impose a sanction directly against a subrecipient, as authorized in WIOA sec. 184(d)(3) and 2 CFR 200.338. In such a case, the Grant Officer will inform the direct grant recipient of the action.




