# ยง 3565.5   Ranking and selection criteria.

(a) *Threshold criteria.* Applications for loan guarantee submitted by lenders must include a loan request for a project that meets all of the following threshold criteria:


(1) The project must involve an owner and a development team with qualifications and experience sufficient to carry out development, management, and ownership responsibilities, and the owner and development team must not be under investigation or suspension from any government programs;


(2) The project must involve the financing of a property located in an eligible rural area;


(3) Demonstrate a readiness, for the project to proceed, including submission of a complete application for a loan guarantee and evidence of financing;


(4) Demonstrate market and financial feasibility; and


(5) Include evidence that the credit risk is reasonable, taking into account conventional lending practices, and factors related to concentration of risk in a given market and with a given borrower.




(b) *Priority projects.* Priority will be given to projects in rural areas in which borrowers can best utilize and where loan guarantees are needed the most, as determined by the Agency based on information the Secretary considers appropriate. In addition, the Agency may, at its sole discretion, set aside assistance for or rank projects that meet important program goals. Assistance will include both loan guarantees and interest credits. Priority projects must compete for set-aside funds. The Agency will announce the priority criteria in an announcement in the _Federal Register_.











---

[N] [63 FR 39458, July 22, 1998, as amended at 64 FR 32371, June 16, 1999; 84 FR 55036, Oct. 15, 2019; 89 FR 19499, Mar. 19, 2024]




