# § 248.149   Timetable for approval of a plan of action.

(a) *Notification of deficiencies.* Not later than 60 days after receipt of a plan of action, the Commissioner shall notify the owner in writing of any deficiencies that prevent the plan of action from being approved. Such notice shall describe alternative ways in which the plan may be revised to meet the criteria for approval set forth in § 248.145. 


(b) *Notification of approval.* Not later than 180 days after receipt of a plan of action, or such longer period as the owner requests, but not more than 365 days, the Commissioner shall notify the owner in writing whether the plan of action, including any revisions, is approved. If approval is withheld, the notice shall describe—


(1) The reasons for withholding approval; and 


(2) Suggestions to the owner for meeting the criteria for approval. 


(c) *Opportunity to revise.* The Commissioner shall give the owner a reasonable opportunity of not more than 60 days to revise the plan of action when approval is denied. If the owner fails to comply with this time period, it shall not be eligible for relief under paragraph (d) of this section. 


(d) *Delayed approval.* If the Commissioner fails to approve a plan of action within the time set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, the Commissioner shall provide incentives and assistance under subpart B of this part, to an owner who is entitled to receive such incentives and assistance, in the amount that the owner would have received if the Commissioner had complied with such time limitations. Paragraph (d) of this section does not apply to plans of action that are not approved because of deficiencies.




