# § 184.1425   Magnesium carbonate.

(a) Magnesium carbonate (molecular formula approximately (MgCO_3_)_4_·Mg(OH)_2_·5H_2_O, CAS Reg. No. 39409-82-0) is also known as magnesium carbonate hydroxide. It is a white powder formed either by adding an alkaline carbonate (such as sodium carbonate) to a solution of magnesium sulfate or by carbonation of a slurry of magnesium hydroxide followed by boiling of the resulting magnesium carbonate.


(b) The ingredient meets the specifications of the Food Chemicals Codex, 3d Ed. (1981), p. 177, which is incorporated by reference. Copies are available from the National Academy Press, 2101 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20418, or available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(c) In accordance with § 184.1(b)(1), the ingredient is used in food with no limitation other than current good manufacturing practice. The affirmation of this ingredient as generally recognized as safe (GRAS) as a direct human food ingredient is based upon the following current good manufacturing practice conditions of use:


(1) The ingredient is used as an anticaking and free-flow agent as defined in § 170.3(o)(1) of this chapter; a flour treating agent as defined in § 170.3(o)(13) of this chapter; a lubricant and release agent as defined in § 170.3(o)(18) of this chapter; a nutrient supplement as defined in § 170.3(o)(20) of this chapter; a pH control agent as defined in § 170.3(o)(23) of this chapter; a processing aid as defined in § 170.3(o)(24) of this chapter; and a synergist as defined in § 170.3(o)(31) of this chapter.


(2) The ingredient is used in foods at levels not to exceed current good manufacturing practice.


(d) Prior sanctions for this ingredient different from the uses established in this section do not exist or have been waived.



---

[N] [50 FR 13558, Apr. 5, 1985; 50 FR 16080, Apr. 24, 1985]




