# § 764.7   Activities involving items that may have been illegally exported or reexported to Libya.

(a) *Introduction.* As set forth in § 764.2(e) of this part, and restated in General Prohibition Ten at § 736.2(b)(10) of the EAR, no person (including a non-U.S. Third Party) may order, buy, remove, conceal, store, use, sell, loan, dispose of, transfer, finance, forward, or otherwise service, in whole or in part, any item subject to the EAR with knowledge that a violation has occurred, or will occur, in connection with the item. This section addresses the application of § 764.2(e) of this part to activities involving items subject to the EAR that may have been illegally exported or reexported to Libya before the comprehensive embargo on Libya ended (April 29, 2004) (“installed base” items).


(b) *Libya*—(1) *Activities involving installed base items in Libya for which no license is required.* Subject to the reporting requirement set forth in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, activities within the scope of § 764.2(e) of this part involving installed base items described in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section that are located in Libya and that were exported or reexported before April 29, 2004 do not require a license from BIS.


(i) *Scope.* An installed base item is within the scope of paragraph (b)(1) of this section if:


(A) It is not on the Commerce Control List in supplement no. 1 to part 774 of the EAR;


(B) It is on the Commerce Control List, but is authorized for export or reexport pursuant to a License Exception to Libya; or


(C) It is on the Commerce Control List and controlled only for AT reasons or for NS and AT reasons only, and is not listed on the Wassenaar Arrangement's Sensitive List (Annex 1) or Very Sensitive List (Annex 2) posted on the Wassenaar Arrangement's Web site (*www.wassenaar.org*) at the Control Lists web page.


(ii) *Reporting requirement.* Any person engaging in activity described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section must submit to BIS's Office of Export Enforcement (OEE) a report including all known material facts with respect to how the installed base item arrived in Libya. The report must be submitted to OEE at the address identified in § 764.4(a) of the EAR within ninety (90) days of the first activity relating to the installed base item in Libya. A report may address more than one activity and/or more than one installed base item. An additional report must be submitted if any new material information regarding the export or reexport to Libya of the installed base item is discovered.


(2) *Licensing procedure for activities involving installed base items in Libya*—(i) *License requirement.* Any person seeking to undertake activities within the scope of § 764.2(e) of the EAR with respect to any installed base item located in Libya and not described in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section must obtain a license from BIS prior to engaging in any such activities. License applications should be submitted in accordance with §§ 748.1, 748.4 and 748.6 of the EAR, and should fully describe the relevant activity within the scope of § 764.2(e) of this part which is the basis of the application. License applications should include all known material facts as to how the installed base item originally was exported or reexported to Libya. This section also applies if you know that an item to be exported or reexported to a third party will be used on an installed base item not described in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.


(ii) *Licensing policy.* BIS will review license applications submitted pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section on a case-by-case basis. Favorable consideration will be given for those applications related to civil end-uses in Libya. Applications related to military, police, intelligence, or other sensitive end-uses in Libya will be subject to a general policy of denial.


(3) *Exclusion.* The provisions of this section are not applicable to any activities within the scope of § 764.2(e) of the EAR undertaken with respect to an installed base item in Libya by a person who was party to the original illegal export or reexport of the related installed base item to Libya. Such persons should voluntarily self-disclose violations pursuant to the procedures set forth in § 764.5 of this part, which in some cases may allow activities related to unlawfully exported or reexported items to be undertaken based on permission from BIS.


(4) *Relationship to other Libya license requirements.* Notwithstanding this section, a license may be required pursuant to another provision of the EAR to engage in activity involving Libya. If a license is required pursuant to another section of the EAR, and the transaction also involves activity within the scope of § 764.2(e) of this part related to an installed base item in Libya, this information should be specified on the license application. Such applications must also include all known information as to how the installed base item originally arrived in Libya. If granted, the license for the proposed transaction will also authorize the related activity within the scope of § 764.2(e) of this part.



---

[N] [70 FR 14391, Mar. 22, 2005, as amended at 71 FR 51719, Aug. 31, 2006; 73 FR 49331, Aug. 21, 2008]




