# ยง 669.110   What definitions apply to this program?

In addition to the definitions found in WIA sections 101 and 167 and in 20 CFR 660.300, the following definitions apply to programs under this part: 


*Allowances* means direct payments, which must not exceed the higher of the State or Federal minimum wage, made to NFJP participants during their enrollment to enable them to participate in intensive or training services. 


*Capacity enhancement* means the technical assistance we provide to grantees and grantee staff by the Department to improve the quality of the program and the delivery of program services to NFJP participants. 


*Dependent* means an individual who: 


(1) Was claimed as a dependent on the qualifying farmworker's federal income tax return for the previous year; or


(2) Is the spouse of the qualifying farmworker; or


(3) If not claimed as a dependent for federal income tax purposes, is able to establish: 


(i) A relationship as the farmworker's 


(A) Child, grandchild, great grandchild, including legally adopted children; 


(B) Stepchild; 


(C) Brother, sister, half brother, half sister, stepbrother, or stepsister; 


(D) Parent, grandparent, or other direct ancestor but not foster parent; 


(E) Foster child; 


(F) Stepfather or stepmother; 


(G) Uncle or aunt; 


(H) Niece or nephew; 


(I) Father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law; or 


(J) Daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, or sister-in-law; and 


(ii) The receipt of over half of his/her total support from the eligible farmworker's family during the eligibility determination period. 


*Disadvantaged* means a farmworker whose income, for any 12 consecutive months out of the 24 months immediately before the farmworker applies for the program, does not exceed the higher of either the poverty line or 70 percent of the lower living standard income level, adjusted for the farmworker's family size and including the income of all wage earners, except when its inclusion would be unjust due to unstable conditions of the family unit. 


*DSFP* means the Division of Seasonal Farmworker Programs within the Employment and Training Administration of the Department, or a successor organizational unit. 


*Eligibility determination period* means any consecutive 12-month period within the 24-month period immediately preceding the date of application for the NFJP by the applicant farmworker. 


*Emergency assistance* means assistance that addresses immediate needs of farmworkers and their families, provided by NFJP grantees. Except for evidence to support legal working status in the United States and Selective Service registration, where applicable, the applicant's self-attestation is accepted as eligibility for emergency assistance. 


*Farmwork* means those occupations and industries within agricultural production and agricultural services that we identify for the National Farmworker Jobs Program. 


*Housing development assistance* within the NFJP, is a type of related assistance consisting of an organized program of education and on-site demonstrations about the basic elements of family housing and may include financing, site selection, permits and construction skills, leading towards home ownership. 


*MOU* means Memorandum of Understanding.


*MSFW* means a Migrant or Seasonal Farmworker under WIA section 167. 


*MSFW program grantee* means an entity to which we directly award a WIA grant to carry out the MSFW program in one or more designated States or substate areas.


*National Farmworker Jobs Program (NFJP)* is the nationally administered workforce investment program for farmworkers established by WIA section 167 as a required partner of the One-Stop system. 


*Related assistance* means short-term forms of direct assistance designed to assist farmworkers and their families to retain or stabilize their agricultural employment or enrollment in the NFJP. 


*Self-certification* means a farmworker's signed attestation that the information he/she submits to demonstrate eligibility for the NFJP is true and accurate. 


*Service area* means the geographical jurisdiction in which a WIA section 167 grantee is designated to operate. 


*Work experience* means a planned, structured learning experience that takes place in a workplace for a limited period of time. Work experience may be paid or unpaid, as appropriate. 




