# § 1724.51   Design requirements.

The provisions of this section apply to all borrower electric system facilities regardless of the source of financing.


(a) *Distribution.* All distribution facilities must conform to the applicable RUS construction standards and utilize RUS accepted materials.


(b) *Transmission lines.* (1) All transmission line design data must be approved by RUS or a licensed professional engineer may certify that the design data, plans and profiles drawings for the electric system facilities meets all applicable RUS electric design requirements, specifications, local, state and national requirements and that RUS listed materials were used.


(2) Design data consists of all significant design features, including, but not limited to, transmission line design data summary, general description of terrain, right-of-way calculations, discussion concerning conductor and structure selection, conductor sag and tension information, design clearances, span limitations due to clearances, galloping or conductor separation, design loads, structure strength limitations, insulator selection and design, guying requirements, and vibration considerations. For lines composed of steel or concrete poles, or steel towers, in which load information will be used to purchase the structures, the design data shall also include loading trees, structure configuration and selection, and a discussion concerning foundation selection.


(3) Line design data for uprating transmission lines to higher voltage levels or capacity must be approved by RUS.


(4) Transmission line design data which has received RUS approval in connection with a previous transmission line construction project for a particular borrower is considered approved by RUS for that borrower, provided that:


(i) The conditions on the project fall within the design data previously approved; and


(ii) No significant NESC revisions have occurred.


(c) *Substations.* (1) All substation design data must be approved by RUS or a licensed professional engineer may certify that the design data, plans and profiles drawings for the electric system facilities meets all applicable RUS electric design requirements, specifications, local, state and national requirements and that RUS listed materials were used.


(2) Design data consists of all significant design features, including, but not limited to, a discussion of site considerations, oil spill prevention measures, design considerations covering voltage, capacity, shielding, clearances, number of low and high voltage phases, major equipment, foundation design parameters, design loads for line support structures and the control house, seismic considerations, corrosion, grounding, protective relaying, and AC and DC auxiliary systems. Reference to applicable safety codes and construction standards are also to be included.


(3) Substation design data which has received RUS approval in connection with a previous substation construction project for a particular borrower is considered approved by RUS for that borrower, provided that:


(i) The conditions on the project fall within the design data previously approved; and


(ii) No significant NESC revisions have occurred.


(d) *Generating facilities.* (1) This section covers all portions of a generating plant including plant buildings, the generator step-up transformer, and the transmission switchyard at a generating plant. Warehouses and equipment service buildings not associated with generation plants are covered under paragraph (e) of this section. Generation plant buildings must meet the requirements of paragraph (e)(1) of this section.


(2) For all new generation units and for all repowering projects, the design outline shall be approved by RUS, unless RUS determines that a design outline is not needed for a particular project.


(3) The design outline will include all significant design criteria. During the early stages of the project, RUS will, in consultation with the borrower and its consulting engineer, identify the specific items which are to be included in the design outline.


(e) *Headquarters*—(1) *Applicable laws.* The design and construction of headquarters facilities shall comply with all applicable Federal, State, and local laws and regulations, including, but not limited to:


(i) Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, (29 U.S.C. 794), which states that no qualified individual with a handicap shall, solely by reason of their handicap, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subject to discrimination under any program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance. The Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards (41 CFR part 101-19, subpart 101-19.6, appendix A) are the applicable standards for all new or altered borrower buildings, regardless of the source of financing.


(ii) The Architectural Barriers Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4151), which requires that buildings financed with Federal funds are designed and constructed to be accessible to the physically handicapped.


(iii) The Earthquake Hazards Reduction Act of 1977 (42 U.S.C. 7701 *et seq.*), and Executive Order 12699, Seismic Safety of Federal and Federally Assisted or Regulated New Building Construction (3 CFR 1990 Comp., p. 269). Appropriate seismic safety provisions are required for new buildings for which RUS provides financial assistance. (See part 1792, subpart C, of this chapter.)


(2) The borrower shall provide evidence, satisfactory in form and substance to the Administrator, that each building will be designed and built in compliance with all Federal, State, and local requirements.


(f) *Communications and control.* (1) This section covers microwave and powerline carrier communications systems, load control, and supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) systems but does not include cybersecurity measures.


(2) The performance considerations for a new or replacement master system must be approved by RUS. A master system includes the main controller and related equipment at the main control point. Performance considerations include all major system features and their justification, including, but not limited to, the objectives of the system, the types of parameters to be controlled or monitored, the communication media, alternatives considered, and provisions for future needs.



---

[N] [63 FR 35314, June 29, 1998, as amended at 84 FR 32617, July 9, 2019; 87 FR 73442, Nov. 30, 2022]






