# § 1003.410   Amount of penalties and assessments for Contracting Organization.

(a) *Penalties.* (1) The OIG may impose a penalty of up to $25,000 for each individual violation under § 1001.400, except as provided in this section.


(2) The OIG may impose a penalty of up to $100,000 for each individual violation under § 1003.400(a)(3), (a)(5), or (e).


(b) *Additional penalties.* In addition to the penalties described in paragraph (a) of this section, the OIG may impose—


(1) An additional penalty equal to double the amount of excess premium charged by the contracting organization for each individual violation of § 1003.400(a)(2). The excess premium amount will be deducted from the penalty and returned to the enrollee.


(2) An additional $15,000 penalty for each individual expelled or not enrolled in violation of § 1003.400(a)(3) or (e).


(c) *Assessments.* The OIG may impose an assessment against a contracting organization with a contract under section 1857 or 1860D-12 of the Act (Medicare Advantage or Part D) of not more than the amount claimed in violation of § 1003.400(a)(4) or (a)(5) on the basis of the misrepresentation or falsified information involved.


(d) The OIG may impose a penalty or, when applicable, an assessment, against a contracting organization with a contract under section 1857 or 1860D-12 of the Act (Medicare Advantage or Part D) if any of its employees, agents, or contracting providers or suppliers engages in any of the conduct described in § 1003.400(a) through (d).



---

[N] [81 FR 88357, Dec. 7, 2016, as amended at 88 FR 42841, July 3, 2023]




