# ยง 1015.20   Public availability of accident or investigation reports.

(a) Accident or investigation reports made by an officer, employee, or agent of the Commission are available to the public under the procedures set forth in subpart A of this part 1015 unless such reports are subject to exemptions contained in the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552(b)) except that portions identifying any injured person or any person treating such injured person will be deleted in accordance with section 25(c)(1) of the CPSA. Where disclosure of an accident or investigation report is requested by supplying the name of the person injured or other details of a specific accident (other than cases where the report is requested by the injured person or the injured person's legal representative), the Commission will offer to obtain the written consent of the injured party or the injured party's representative to the disclosure of the report without deleting the party's identity. No deletion of identifying portions of such reports or refusal to disclose without the Commission having first obtained written consent shall be considered as a denial by the Commission of disclosure of Commission records.


(b) Research reports, demonstration reports, and reports of other related activities of the Commission are available to the public under the procedures set forth in subpart A of this part 1015.



---

[N] [42 FR 10490, Feb. 22, 1977, as amended at 82 FR 37010, Aug. 8, 2017; 86 FR 7507, Jan. 29, 2021]




