# ยง 266.507   Residues of hazardous waste pharmaceuticals in empty containers.

(a) *Stock, dispensing and unit-dose containers.* A stock bottle, dispensing bottle, vial, or ampule (not to exceed 1 liter or 10,000 pills); or a unit-dose container (*e.g.,* a unit-dose packet, cup, wrapper, blister pack, or delivery device) is considered empty and the residues are not regulated as hazardous waste provided the pharmaceuticals have been removed from the stock bottle, dispensing bottle, vial, ampule, or the unit-dose container using the practices commonly employed to remove materials from that type of container.


(b) *Syringes.* A syringe is considered empty and the residues are not regulated as hazardous waste under this subpart provided the contents have been removed by fully depressing the plunger of the syringe. At healthcare facilities operating under this subpart, if a syringe is not empty, the syringe must be placed with its remaining hazardous waste pharmaceuticals into a container that is managed and disposed of as a non-creditable hazardous waste pharmaceutical under this subpart and any applicable federal, state, and local requirements for sharps containers and medical waste.


(c) *Intravenous (IV) bags.* An IV bag is considered empty and the residues are not regulated as hazardous waste provided the pharmaceuticals in the IV bag have been fully administered to a patient, or if the IV bag held non-acute hazardous waste pharmaceuticals and is empty as defined in ยง 261.7(b)(1) of this subchapter. At healthcare facilities operating under this subpart, if an IV bag is not empty, the IV bag must be placed with its remaining hazardous waste pharmaceuticals into a container that is managed and disposed of as a non-creditable hazardous waste pharmaceutical under this subpart.


(d) *Other containers, including delivery devices.* At healthcare facilities operating under this subpart, hazardous waste pharmaceuticals remaining in all other types of unused, partially administered, or fully administered containers must be managed as non-creditable hazardous waste pharmaceuticals under this subpart, unless the container held non-acute hazardous waste pharmaceuticals and is empty as defined in ยง 261.7(b)(1) or (2) of this subchapter. This includes, but is not limited to, residues in inhalers, aerosol cans, nebulizers, tubes of ointments, gels, or creams.





---

[N] [84 FR 5940, Feb. 22, 2019, as amended at 88 FR 54113, Aug. 9, 2023]










