# ยง 195.414   Inspections of pipelines in areas affected by extreme weather and natural disasters.

(a) *General.* Following an extreme weather event or natural disaster that has the likelihood of damage to infrastructure by the scouring or movement of the soil surrounding the pipeline, such as a named tropical storm or hurricane; a flood that exceeds the river, shoreline, or creek high-water banks in the area of the pipeline; a landslide in the area of the pipeline; or an earthquake in the area of the pipeline, an operator must inspect all potentially affected pipeline facilities to detect conditions that could adversely affect the safe operation of that pipeline.


(b) *Inspection method.* An operator must consider the nature of the event and the physical characteristics, operating conditions, location, and prior history of the affected pipeline in determining the appropriate method for performing the initial inspection to determine the extent of any damage and the need for the additional assessments required under paragraph (a) of this section.


(c) *Time period.* The inspection required under paragraph (a) of this section must commence within 72 hours after the cessation of the event, defined as the point in time when the affected area can be safely accessed by the personnel and equipment required to perform the inspection as determined under paragraph (b) of this section. In the event that the operator is unable to commence the inspection due to the unavailability of personnel or equipment, the operator must notify the appropriate PHMSA Region Director as soon as practicable.


(d) *Remedial action.* An operator must take prompt and appropriate remedial action to ensure the safe operation of a pipeline based on the information obtained as a result of performing the inspection required under paragraph (a) of this section. Such actions might include, but are not limited to:


(1) Reducing the operating pressure or shutting down the pipeline;


(2) Modifying, repairing, or replacing any damaged pipeline facilities;


(3) Preventing, mitigating, or eliminating any unsafe conditions in the pipeline right-of-way;


(4) Performing additional patrols, surveys, tests, or inspections;


(5) Implementing emergency response activities with Federal, State, or local personnel; and


(6) Notifying affected communities of the steps that can be taken to ensure public safety.



---

[N] [Amdt. 195-102, 84 FR 52295, Oct. 1, 2019]




