# § 721.4280   Substituted hydrazine.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as substituted hydrazine (PMN P-90-594) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. 


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(i), (a)(6)(i), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c). 


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), (g)(1)(iv), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2), (g)(3), (g)(4)(i), (g)(4)(iii), and (g)(5). In addition, the human health hazard statement shall include mutagenicity.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(l). 


(iv) *Disposal.* Requirements as specified in § 721.85 (a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1). 


(v) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90 (a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph. 


(1) *Recordkeeping.* The following recordkeeping requirements are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance, as specified in § 721.125 (a) through (k).


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule. 



---

[N] [56 FR 40213, Aug. 13, 1991. Redesignated at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]




