# § 522.772   Doramectin and levamisole.

(a) *Specifications.* Each milliliter of solution contains 5 milligrams (mg) of doramectin and 150 mg levamisole hydrochloride.


(b) *Sponsor.* See No. 054771 in § 510.600(c) of this chapter.


(c) *Related tolerances.* See §§ 556.222 and 556.350 of this chapter.


(d) *Conditions of use*—(1) *Cattle*—(i) *Amount.* Inject subcutaneously in the neck as a single dose at a dosage of 0.2 mg doramectin (0.91 mg/lb) and 6 mg of levamisole hydrochloride per kg (2.72 mg/lb) of body weight.


(ii) *Indications for use.* For treatment and control of gastrointestinal roundworms (adults and fourth stage larvae): *Ostertagia ostertagi* (including inhibited larvae), *O. lyrata, Haemonchus placei,**Trichostrongylus axei, T. colubriformis,**T. longispicularis* (adults only), *Oncophora, Cooperia pectinata* (adults only), *C. punctata, C. surnabada,**Bunostomum phlebotomum* (adults only), *Strongyloides papillosus* (adults only), *Oesophagostomum radiatum, Trichuris* spp. (adults only) and *Nematodirus helvetianus* (adults only); lungworms (adults and fourth stage larvae): *Dictyocaulus viviparus;* eyeworms (adults): *Thelazia* spp.; grubs (parasitic stages): *Hypoderma bovis* and *H. lineatum;* sucking lice: *Haematopinus eurysternus, Linognathus vituli,* and *Solenopotes capillatus;* mange mites: *Psoroptes bovis* and *Sarcoptes scabiei* in beef cattle 2 months of age and older and replacement dairy heifers less than 20 months of age. Not for use in beef bulls intended for breeding over 1 year of age, dairy calves, and veal calves.


(iii) *Limitations.* Cattle must not be slaughtered for human consumption within 15 days following last treatment with this drug product. Not for use in female dairy cattle 20 months of age or older, including dry dairy cows; use in these cattle may cause drug residues in milk and/or in calves born to these cows or heifers. Not for use in beef calves less than 2 months of age, dairy calves, and veal calves. A withdrawal period has not been established for this product in pre-ruminating calves. Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.


(2) [Reserved]







---

[N] [88 FR 14898, Mar. 10, 2023; 89 FR 85426, Oct. 28, 2024]








