# ยง 92.4   Reestablishment of a region or compartment's disease-free status.

This section applies to regions or compartments that are designated under this subchapter as free of a specific animal disease and then experience an outbreak of that disease.


(a) *Interim designation.* If a region or a compartment recognized as free of a specified animal disease in this subchapter experiences an outbreak of that disease, APHIS will take immediate action to prohibit or restrict imports of animals and animal products from the entire region, a portion of that region, or the compartment. APHIS will inform the public as soon as possible of the prohibitions and restrictions by means of a notice in the _Federal Register_.


(b) *Reassessment of the disease situation.* (1) Following removal of disease-free status from all or part of a region or a compartment, APHIS may reassess the disease situation in that region or compartment to determine whether it is necessary to continue the interim prohibitions or restrictions. In reassessing disease status, APHIS will take into consideration the standards of the World Organization for Animal Health (OIE) for reinstatement of disease-free status, as well as all relevant information obtained through public comments or collected by or submitted to APHIS through other means.


(2) Prior to taking any action to relieve prohibitions or restrictions, APHIS will make information regarding its reassessment of the region's or compartment's disease status available to the public for comment. APHIS will announce the availability of this information by means of a notice in the _Federal Register_.


(c) *Determination.* Based on the reassessment conducted in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section regarding the reassessment information, APHIS will take one of the following actions:


(1) Publish a notice in the _Federal Register_ of its decision to reinstate the disease-free status of the region, portion of the region, or compartment;


(2) Publish a notice in the _Federal Register_ of its decision to continue the prohibitions or restrictions on the imports of animals and animal products from that region or compartment; or


(3) Publish another document in the _Federal Register_ for comment.



---

[N] [85 FR 11836, Feb. 28, 2020]




