# § 171.4   Requests for information—types and how made.

(a) *General Information.* (1) Requests for records made in accordance with this part must be made in writing. FOIA requests may be made to the Office of Information Programs and Services (A/GIS/IPS) by email to *foiarequest@state.gov,* through the Department's FOIA website (*www.foia.state.gov/*), by fax to (202) 485-1669, or by mail to the address below. PA requests must be made in writing and signed, and the requester's signature must be either notarized or made under penalty of perjury pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1746. See § 171.22(a). PA requests may be made to A/GIS/IPS by email to *foiarequest@state.gov,* by fax to (202) 485-1669, or by mail. FOIA and PA requests made by mail should be addressed to: Office of Information Programs and Services (A/GIS/IPS), Room B-266, U.S. Department of State, 2201 C Street NW, Washington, DC 20520.


(2) Requests for passport records covered under PA System of Records Notice STATE-26 (available at *www.state.gov/system-of-records-notices-privacy-office/*) must be made in writing, and may be submitted directly to the Law Enforcement Liaison Division of the Passport Services directorate (PPT) of the Bureau of Consular Affairs by mailing the request to U.S. Department of State, Office of Law Enforcement Liaison, FOIA Officer, 44132 Mercure Circle, P.O. Box 1227, Sterling, VA 20166-1227. Requests for passport records and information that do not need to be certified may also be emailed to *PPT-Public-FOIARequests@state.gov*.


(3) Requests for records of the OIG must be made in writing, and may be submitted via email to *foia@stateoig.gov,* by fax to 703-284-1866, or by mail addressed to FOIA Officer, Officer of General Counsel, Office of Inspector General, U.S. Department of State, 1700 N Moore Street, Suite 1400, Arlington, VA 22209. Submission by email is preferred. Guidance and contact information are available on the OIG's website at *www.stateoig.gov/foiarequest*.


(4) The Office of Information Programs and Services, the Law Enforcement Liaison Division of the Passport Services directorate, and the OIG are the only Department components authorized to accept FOIA and PA requests submitted to the Department.


(5) The requester should provide the specific citation to the authority under which he or she is requesting information (e.g., the FOIA, the PA, or Mandatory Declassification Review (MDR) under the current Executive Order on classification). This will facilitate the processing of the request. When individual U.S. citizens and lawful permanent residents request access to records about themselves, the Department processes responsive records maintained in Privacy Act systems of records under both the FOIA and the PA to provide requesters with the greatest degree of access to the records. Information in such records will be withheld only if it is exempt from access under both laws; if the information is exempt under only one of the laws, it will be released. Responsive records that are not maintained in a Privacy Act system of records are processed only under the FOIA.


(6) A requester who requests records about himself or herself, including passport records, must comply with the verification of identity requirements as set forth in § 171.22 of Subpart C (the Privacy Act Provisions) of this part in order for the request to be processed under the PA.


(7) Where a request for records pertains to a third party or to a requester's own records outside of a request under the Privacy Act, a requester may receive greater access by submitting a notarized authorization signed by the person whose records are requested, or by submitting a declaration made in compliance with the requirements set forth in 28 U.S.C. 1746 by the person whose records are requested, authorizing disclosure of the records to the requester, or by submitting proof that the third party is deceased (e.g., a copy of a death certificate or an obituary).


(8) The Immigration and Nationality Act, as amended, section 222(f) (8 U.S.C. 1202(f)), provides that the records of the Department of State and of diplomatic and consular offices of the United States pertaining to the issuance or refusal of visas or permits to enter the United States must be considered confidential and shall be used only for certain enumerated purposes, including the formulation, amendment, administration, or enforcement of the immigration, nationality, and other laws of the United States. As a result, information subject to release in response to a request for visa records about an individual may be limited. Requests for visa records should include the following information for the applicant and, if applicable, the petitioner: full name, as well as any aliases used; current address; email; and date and place of birth (including city, state, and country). Additional information describing the records sought will assist the Department in properly identifying the responsive records and in processing the request. Attorneys or other legal representatives requesting visa information on behalf of a visa applicant should submit a statement with the request signed by the applicant (and the petitioner if the records sought pertain to a petition) authorizing release of the requested visa information to the representative. Alternatively, requesters may submit a DS-4240-R to certify their identity or a DS-4240-C to provide authorization by the applicant (and the petitioner if the records sought pertain to a petition) to release the requested information to the legal representative. Forms created by other Federal agencies will not be accepted. Other information found in the visa file, such as information submitted as part of the visa application and information not falling within section 222(f) or another FOIA exemption, may be provided to the requester.


(b) *Description of records sought.* Although no particular format is required, a request must reasonably describe the Department record(s) that the requester seeks. Requesters must describe the records sought in sufficient detail to enable agency personnel to locate them with a reasonable amount of effort. To the extent possible, requesters should include specific information that may assist the Department in identifying the requested record(s), such as the date, title or name, author, recipient, subject matter, case number, file designation reference number, or timeframe. If after receiving a request the Department determines that the request does not reasonably describe the records sought, the Department will inform the requester that the request is insufficient and shall inform the requester what additional information is needed or why the request is otherwise insufficient. If a request does not reasonably describe the records sought, the agency's response to the request may be delayed. Any records provided in response to a request will be provided in the form or format requested if a releasable form of the records is readily reproducible in that form or format. Requesters must provide contact information, such as their phone number, email address, and/or mailing address, to assist the Department in communicating with them and providing released records.


(c) *Privacy Act versus FOIA.* While the Department makes every effort to provide the greatest possible access to all requested records regardless of the statute(s) under which the information is requested, the following guidance is provided for the benefit of requesters:




(1) The Freedom of Information Act applies to requests for records concerning the general activities of government and of the Department in particular (see subpart B of this part).


(2) The Privacy Act applies to requests from U.S. citizens or lawful permanent residents for records about them that are maintained by the Department in a system of records retrievable by the individual's name or personal identifier (see subpart C of this part).






