# ยง 120.1703   Qualifications to be a Pool Originator.

(a) *Application to become Pool Originator.* The application to become a Pool Originator is available from the SBA and can be found on SBA's website. In order to qualify as a Pool Originator, an entity must send the application to the SBA and certify that it is a Pool Assembler or it:


(1) Is regulated by the appropriate agency as defined in section 3(a)(34)(G) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(34)(G));


(2) Meets all financial and other applicable requirements of its regulatory authority and the Government Securities Act of 1986, as amended (Pub. L. 99-571, 100 Stat. 3208);


(3) Has the financial capability to originate acceptable pools consisting of eligible First Lien Position 504 Loans in sufficient quantity to support the issuance of Pool Certificates;


(4) Is in good standing with SBA (as the SBA determines), and is Satisfactory with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) if it is a national bank, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation if it is a bank not regulated by the OCC, the Financial Institutions Regulatory Authority if it is a member, the National Credit Union Administration if it is a credit union, as determined by SBA; and


(5) for any Pool Originator that is an SBA Lender, that the SBA Lender has satisfactory SBA performance, as determined by SBA in its sole discretion.


(b) *Approval by SBA.* An entity may not submit applications to form Pools to the CSA until SBA has approved its application to become a Pool Originator.


(c) *Conduct of business by Pool Originator.* An entity continues to qualify as a Pool Originator so long as it:


(1) Meets the eligibility standards in paragraph (a) of this section;


(2) Conducts its business in accordance with SBA regulations and accepted securities or banking industry practices, ethics, and standards;


(3) Maintains its books and records in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles or in accordance with the guidelines of the regulatory body governing its activities; and


(4) Has not been suspended or terminated from the Program by SBA.



---

[N] [74 FR 56093, Oct. 30, 2009, as amended at 82 FR 39506, Aug. 21, 2017]




