# § 4.22   Definitions.

(a) All terms used in this subpart which are defined in 5 U.S.C. 552a shall have the same meaning herein. 


(b) As used in this subpart: 


(1) *Act* means the “Privacy Act of 1974, as amended (5 U.S.C. 552a)”. 


(2) *Appeal* means a request by an individual to review and reverse an initial denial of a request from that individual for correction or amendment. 


(3) *Component* means any office, division, bureau or other unit of the Department listed in Appendix A to this part (except that a regional office of a larger office or other unit does not constitute a separate component). 


(4) *Department* means the Department of Commerce. 


(5) *Inquiry* means either a request for general information regarding the Act and this subpart or a request from an individual (or that individual's parent or guardian) that the Department determine whether it has any record in a system of records that pertains to that individual. 


(6) *Person* means any human being and also shall include, but is not limited to, corporations, associations, partnerships, trustees, receivers, personal representatives, and public or private organizations. 


(7) *Privacy Act Officer* means those officials, identified in Appendix B to this part, who are authorized to receive and act upon inquiries, requests for access, and requests for correction or amendment. 


(8) *Request for access* means a request from an individual or an individual's parent or guardian to see a record pertaining to that individual in a particular system of records. 


(9) *Request for correction or amendment* means a request from an individual or an individual's parent or guardian that the Department change (by correction, amendment, addition or deletion) a particular record pertaining to that individual in a system of records. 


(10) *Un-redacted SSN Mailed Documents Listing (USMDL)* means the Department approved list, as posted at *www.commerce.gov/privacy,* designating those documents for which the inclusion of SSN is determined to be necessary to fulfill a compelling Department business need when the documents are requested by individuals outside the Department or other Federal agencies, as determined jointly by the Senior Agency Official for Privacy and the Departmental Privacy Act Officer.



---

[N] [66 FR 65632, Dec. 20, 2001, as amended at 86 FR 21935, Apr. 26, 2021]




