# § 30.3   Recreation District I.

(a) Definition. This district shall comprise all those portions of the Whiskeytown Unit of the Whiskeytown-Shasta-Trinity National Recreation Area delineated as “Recreation District I” on a map bearing the identification NRA-WHI1000, and dated August 1966. 


(b) The following uses are permitted in Recreation District I provided the Shasta County Planning Commission has issued a use permit in each case: 


(1) Single-family dwellings, not including tents and trailers, but including servants' quarters in the same structure or in an accessory dwelling, and one noncommercial guest house. Such residential uses shall meet the following requirements: 


(i) Minimum building site area—3 acres; but a lesser acreage may be utilized for this purpose if, on or before February 7, 1963, the site was in separate ownership and within a recorded subdivision. 


(ii) Maximum building height—35 feet. 


(iii) Minimum frontage—150 feet. 


(iv) Minimum front yard setback—75 feet. 


(v) Minimum side yard setback—50 feet. 


(vi) Minimum rear yard setback—25 feet. 


(vii) Maximum percentage of lot coverage permitted—10 percent. 


(2) Moving, alteration, or improvement of existing residences or accessory structures provided there is compliance with the acreage, frontage, setback, density, height, and other requirements prescribed for residential uses under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, *And provided, further,* That such moving alteration, or improvement does not alter the residential character of the premises. Any moving, alteration or improvement of such structures that would result in a deviation from these prescribed limitations and requirements would subject the property to acquisition without consent of the owner, unless the Secretary has waived such limitations or requirements. 


(3) Tree farming under a timber management plan that conforms to the California Forest Practices Act. 


(4) Riding stables. 


(5) Campgrounds, organizational camps and picnic areas. 


(6) Limited agricultural uses such as truck gardening, provided these uses do not require the extensive cutting or clearing of wooded areas and are not otherwise destructive of natural or recreational values. 


(7) Clearing and removal of trees, shrubbery, and other vegetation to the extent necessary in order to permit the exercise of a use otherwise allowed within this district. 


(8) Recreational pursuits such as horseshoe pitching, archery, croquet, tennis, softball, volley ball, and similar outdoor game-type activities compatible with the recreational purposes of the area. 


(9) Religious and educational uses. 


(10) Removal of gravel, sand, and rock or other alteration of the landscape to the minimum extent necessary for the construction of an access road to the property on which a use is permitted. In all other circumstances, such removal or alteration shall be permitted only to the minimum extent necessary to make possible the exercise of a use otherwise permitted in this district. 


(11) Signs that are appurtenant to any permitted use and which (i) do not exceed 1 square foot in area for any residential use; (ii) do not exceed 4 square feet in area for any other use, including advertisement of the sale or rental of property; and (iii) which are not illuminated by any neon or flashing device. Such signs may be placed only on the property on which the advertised use occurs, or on the property which is advertised for sale or rental. Signs shall be subdued in appearance, harmonizing in design and color with the surroundings and shall not be attached to any tree or shrub. Nonconforming signs may continue such nonconformity until they are destroyed, moved, structurally altered or redesigned, but the period of such nonconformity may not exceed 2 years from the date a zoning ordinance containing this limitation is adopted by Shasta County. 


(12) Accessory uses and temporary removable structures appurtenant to any permitted use. 


(c) Any use not included above as a permitted use shall be deemed a prohibited use. Moreover, all land within the boundaries of the Whiskeytown Unit, except certain “improved property” as defined herein, will be acquired by the United States as rapidly as appropriated funds are made available therefor and before any development occurs thereon. Any property that is developed before such acquisition takes place will be subject to acquisition by the Secretary without consent of the owner. 




