# ยง 3172.8   Mud program.

(a) *Requirements.* The characteristics, use, and testing of drilling mud and the implementation of related drilling procedures shall be designed to prevent the loss of well control. Sufficient quantities of mud materials shall be maintained or readily accessible for the purpose of assuring well control.


(b) *Minimum standards and enforcement provisions for mud program and equipment.* (1) Record slow pump speed on daily drilling report after mudding up.


(2) Visual mud monitoring equipment shall be in place to detect volume changes indicating loss or gain of circulating fluid volume.


(3) When abnormal pressures are anticipated, electronic/mechanical mud monitoring equipment shall be required, which shall include as a minimum: pit volume totalizer (PVT); stroke counter; and flow sensor.


(4) A mud test shall be performed every 24 hours after mudding up to determine, as applicable: density, viscosity, gel strength, filtration, and pH.


(5) A trip tank shall be used on 10M and 15M systems and on upgraded 5M systems as determined by the authorized officer.


(6)(i) Gas detecting equipment shall be installed in the mud return system for exploratory wells or wells where abnormal pressure is anticipated, and hydrocarbon gas shall be monitored for pore pressure changes.


(ii) Hydrogen sulfide safety and monitoring equipment requirements may be found in subpart 3176 of this part.


(7) All flare systems shall be designed to gather and burn all gas. The flare line(s) discharge shall be located not less than 100 feet from the well head, having straight lines unless turns are targeted with running tees, and shall be positioned downwind of the prevailing wind direction and shall be anchored. The flare system shall have an effective method for ignition. Where noncombustible gas is likely or expected to be vented, the system shall be provided supplemental fuel for ignition and to maintain a continuous flare.


(8) A mud-gas separator (gas buster) shall be installed and operable for all systems of 10M or greater and for any system where abnormal pressure is anticipated beginning at a point at least 500 feet above any anticipated hydrocarbon zone of interest.


