# § 524.770   Doramectin.

(a) *Specifications.* Each milliliter (mL) of solution contains 5 milligrams (mg) doramectin.


(b) *Sponsors.* See Nos. 051072, 054771, and 061133 in § 510.600(c) of this chapter.


(c) *Related tolerances.* See § 556.222 of this chapter.


(d) *Special considerations.* See § 500.25 of this chapter.


(e) *Conditions of use in cattle*—(1) *Amount.* Administer topically 1 mL (5 mg doramectin) per 22 lb (10 kg) of body weight.


(2) *Indications for use.* For treatment and control of gastrointestinal roundworms: *Ostertagia ostertagi* (adults and fourth-stage larvae), *Ostertagia ostertagi* (inhibited fourth-stage larvae), *Ostertagia lyrata* (adults), *Haemonchus placei* (adults and fourth-stage larvae), *Trichostrongylus axei* (adults and fourth-stage larvae), *Trichostrongylus colubriformis* (adults and fourth-stage larvae), *Cooperia oncophora* (adults and fourth-stage larvae), *Cooperia punctata* (adults and fourth-stage larvae), *Cooperia pectinata* (adults), *Cooperia surnabada* (adults), *Bunostomum phlebotomum* (adults), *Oesophagostomum radiatum* (adults and fourth-stage larvae), *Trichuris spp.* (adults); lungworms: *Dictyocaulus viviparus* (adults and fourth-stage larvae); eyeworms: *Thelazia gulosa* (adults), *Thelazia skrjabini* (adults); grubs: *Hypoderma bovis* and *Hypoderma lineatum*; sucking lice: *Linognathus vituli*, *Haematopinus eurysternus*, and *Solenopotes capillatus*; biting lice: *Bovicola (Damalinia) bovis*; mange mites: *Chorioptes bovis* and *Sarcoptes scabiei*; horn flies: *Haematobia irritans*; and to control infections and to protect from reinfection with *Cooperia oncophora*, *Dictyocaulus viviparus*, *Ostertagia ostertagi*, and *Oesophagostomum radiatum* for 28 days; and with *Cooperia punctata* and *Haemonchus placei* for 35 days after treatment; and to control infestations and to protect from reinfestation with *Linognathus vituli* for 42 days and with *Bovicola (Damalinia) bovis* for 77 days after treatment.


(3) *Limitations.* Cattle must not be slaughtered for human consumption within 45 days of treatment. Not for use in female dairy cattle 20 months of age or older. A withdrawal period has not been established for this product in pre-ruminating calves. Do not use in calves to be processed for veal.



---

[N] [69 FR 48392, Aug. 10, 2004, as amended at 70 FR 43046, July 26, 2005; 79 FR 10967, Feb. 27, 2014; 84 FR 32993, July 11, 2019; 87 FR 10970, Feb. 28, 2022; 88 FR 27700, May 3, 2023; 90 FR 6801, Jan. 21, 2025]




