# § 585.113   Definitions.

Terms used in this part have the meanings as defined in this section:


*Affected local government* means with respect to any activities proposed, conducted, or approved under this part or 30 CFR part 285, any locality:


(1) That is, or is proposed to be, the site of gathering, transmitting, or distributing electricity or other energy product, or is otherwise receiving, processing, refining, or transshipping product, or services derived from activities approved under this part or 30 CFR part 285;


(2) That is used, or is proposed to be used, as a support base for activities approved under this part or 30 CFR part 285; or


(3) In which there is a reasonable probability of significant effect on land or water uses from activities approved under this part, or 30 CFR part 285.


*Affected State* means with respect to any activities proposed, conducted, or approved under this part or 30 CFR part 285, any coastal State—


(1) That is, or is proposed to be, the site of gathering, transmitting, or distributing energy or is otherwise receiving, processing, refining, or transshipping products, or services derived from activities approved under this part or 30 CFR part 285;


(2) That is used, or is scheduled to be used, as a support base for activities approved under this part or 30 CFR part 285; or


(3) In which there is a reasonable probability of significant effect on land or water uses from activities approved under this part or 30 CFR part 285.


*Archaeological resource* means any material remains of human life or activities that are at least 50 years of age and that are of archaeological interest (*i.e.,* which are capable of providing scientific or humanistic understanding of past human behavior, cultural adaptation, and related topics through the application of scientific or scholarly techniques, such as controlled observation, contextual measurement, controlled collection, analysis, interpretation, and explanation).


*Best available and safest technology* means the best available and safest technologies that BOEM determines to be economically feasible wherever failure of equipment would have a significant effect on safety, health, or the environment.


*Best management practices* mean practices recognized within their respective industry, or by government, as one of the best for achieving the desired output while reducing undesirable outcomes.


*Bidding credits* means the value assigned by BOEM, expressed in monetary terms, to the factors or actions demonstrated, or committed to, by a bidder at a BOEM lease auction during the competitive lease award process. The type(s) and value(s) of any bidding credit(s) awarded to any given bidder will be set forth in the Final Sale Notice.


*BOEM* means Bureau of Ocean Energy Management of the Department of the Interior.


*BSEE* means Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement of the Department of the Interior.


*Certified Verification Agent (CVA)* means an individual or organization, experienced in the design, fabrication, and installation of offshore marine facilities or structures, who will conduct specified third-party reviews, inspections, and verifications in accordance with 30 CFR part 285.


*Coastal environment* means the physical atmospheric, and biological components, conditions, and factors which interactively determine the productivity, state, condition, and quality of the terrestrial ecosystem from the shoreline inward to the boundaries of the coastal zone.


*Coastline* means the same as the term “coast line” in section 2 of the Submerged Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1301(c)).


*Commercial activities* means, under renewable energy leases and grants, all activities associated with the generation, storage, or transmission of electricity or other energy product from a renewable energy project on the OCS, and for which such electricity or other energy product is intended for distribution, sale, or other commercial use, except for electricity or other energy product distributed or sold pursuant to technology-testing activities on a limited lease. This term also includes activities associated with all stages of development, including initial site characterization and assessment, facility construction, and project decommissioning.


*Commercial lease* means a lease issued under this part that specifies the terms and conditions under which a person can conduct commercial activities.


*Commercial operations* means the generation of electricity or other energy product for commercial use, sale, transmission, or distribution from a commercial lease.


*Critical Safety Systems and Equipment* means safety systems and equipment designed to prevent or ameliorate fire, spillages, or other major accidents that could result in harm to health, safety, or the environment in the area of your facilities.


*Decommissioning* means removing BOEM and BSEE approved facilities and returning the site of the lease or grant to a condition that meets the requirements under subpart I of 30 CFR part 285.


*Director* means the Director of BOEM, or an official authorized to act on the Director's behalf.


*Distance* means the minimum great circle distance.


*Eligible State* means a coastal State having a coastline (measured from the nearest point) no more than 15 miles from the geographic center of a qualified project area.


*Fabrication* means the cutting, fitting, welding, or other assembly of project elements.


*Facility* means an installation that is permanently or temporarily attached to the seabed of the OCS. Facilities include any structures; devices; appurtenances; gathering, transmission, and distribution cables; pipelines; and permanently moored vessels. Any group of OCS installations interconnected with walkways, or any group of installations that includes a central or primary installation with one or more satellite or secondary installations, is a single facility. BOEM and BSEE may decide that the complexity of the installations justifies their classification as separate facilities.


*Geographic center of a project* means the centroid (geometric center point) of a qualified project area. The centroid represents the point that is the weighted average of coordinates of the same dimension, with the weights determined by a density function. For example, in the case of a project area shaped as a rectangle or other parallelogram, the geographic center would be that point where lines between opposing corners intersect. The geographic center of a project could be outside the project area itself if that area is irregularly shaped.


*Governor* means the Governor of a State or the person or entity lawfully designated by or under State law to exercise the powers granted to a Governor.


*Grant* means a right-of-way or a right-of-use and easement issued under the provisions of this part.


*Human environment* means the physical, social, and economic components, conditions, and factors that interactively determine the state, condition, and quality of living conditions, employment, and health of those affected, directly or indirectly, by activities occurring on the OCS.


*Lease* means an agreement authorizing the use of a designated portion of the OCS for activities allowed under this part. The term also means the area covered by that agreement, when the context requires.


*Lease area* means an area on the OCS that BOEM has identified for leasing for potential development of renewable energy resources.


*Lessee* means the holder of a lease, a BOEM-approved assignee, and, when describing the conduct required of parties engaged in activities on the lease, it also refers to the operator and all persons authorized by the holder of the lease or operator to conduct activities on the lease.


*Limited lease* means a lease issued under this part that specifies the terms and conditions under which a person may conduct activities on the OCS that support the production of energy, but do not result in the production of electricity or other energy product for sale, distribution, or other commercial use exceeding a limit specified in the lease.


*Marine environment* means the physical, atmospheric, and biological components, conditions, and factors that interactively determine the productivity, state, condition, and quality of the marine ecosystem. These include the waters of the high seas, the contiguous zone, transitional and intertidal areas, salt marshes, and wetlands within the coastal zone and on the OCS.


*Miles* means nautical miles, as opposed to statute miles.


*Multiple factor auction* means an auction that involves the use of bidding credits to incentivize goals or actions that support public policy objectives or maximize public benefits through the competitive leasing auction process. For any multiple factor auction, the monetary value of the bidding credits, if any, would be added to the value of the cash bid to determine the highest bidder.


*Natural resources* include, without limiting the generality thereof, renewable energy, oil, gas, and all other minerals (as defined in section 2(q) of the OCS Lands Act), and marine animal and marine plant life.


*Operator* means the individual, corporation, or association having control or management of activities on the lease or grant under this part. The operator may be a lessee, grant holder, or a contractor designated by the lessee or holder of a grant issued under this part.


*Outer Continental Shelf (OCS)* means all submerged lands lying seaward and outside of the area of lands beneath navigable waters, as defined in section 2 of the Submerged Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1301), whose subsoil and seabed appertain to the United States and are subject to its jurisdiction and control or within the exclusive economic zone of the United States and adjacent to any territory of the United States and does not include any area conveyed by Congress to a territorial government for administration.


*Person* means, in addition to a natural person, an association (including partnerships and joint ventures); a Federal agency; a State; a political subdivision of a State; a Native American Tribal government; or a private, public, or municipal corporation.


*Project,* for the purposes of defining the source of revenues to be shared, means a lease, ROW, RUE, or Alternate Use RUE on which the activities authorized under this part and/or 30 CFR part 285 or 586 are conducted on the OCS. The term “project” may be used elsewhere in this part to refer to these same authorized activities, the facilities used to conduct these activities, or to the geographic area of the project, *i.e.,* the project area.


*Project area* means the geographic surface leased, or granted, for the purpose of a specific project. If OCS acreage is granted for a project under some form of agreement other than a lease (*i.e.,* a ROW or RUE), the Federal acreage granted would be considered the project area. To avoid distortions in the calculation of the geometric center of the project area, project easements issued under this part are not considered part of the qualified project's area.


*Project Design Envelope (PDE)* means a reasonable range of design parameters proposed in a lessee's plan for components of the project, such as type, dimensions, and number of wind turbine generators; foundation type; location of the export cable route; location of an onshore substation; location of the grid connection point; and construction methods and timing.


*Project easement* means an easement to which, upon approval of your Construction and Operations Plan (COP) or General Activities Plan (GAP), you are entitled as part of the lease for the purpose of installing, maintaining, repairing and replacing: gathering, transmission, and distribution, and inter-array cables; power and pumping stations; facility anchors; pipelines; and associated facilities and other appurtenances on the OCS as necessary for the full enjoyment of the lease.


*Provisional winner* means a bidder that BOEM determines at the conclusion of the auction to have submitted the winning bid. The provisional winner becomes the winning bidder after the favorable completion of BOEM's bid review, Department of Justice antitrust review, bidder obligations under § 585.225(b), and any appeals process under § 585.118(c).


*Receipt,* as used in this part to describe the time when a document is received by any party in the absence of documentation to the contrary, is deemed to have taken place:


(1)(i) Five (5) business days after the date the document was given to the U.S. Postal Service (or deposited in one of its mailboxes), properly addressed and with proper postage affixed, or was given to a delivery service (or deposited in one of its receptacles), properly addressed and with the delivery cost prepaid; or


(ii) On the date on which the document was properly addressed and sent electronically.


(2) This definition also applies to variants of the words “receipt” and “receive” where those terms are used in this part to describe the receipt of a document when the timing of receipt triggers a regulatory time period or consequence.


*Renewable Energy* means energy resources other than oil and gas and minerals as defined in 30 CFR part 580. Such resources include, but are not limited to, wind, solar, and ocean waves, tides, and current.


*Revenues* mean bonuses, rents, operating fees, and similar payments made in connection with a project or project area. It does not include administrative fees such as those assessed for cost recovery, civil penalties, and forfeiture of financial assurance.


*Right-of-use and easement (RUE) grant* means an easement issued by BOEM under this part that authorizes use of a designated portion of the OCS to support activities on a lease or other use authorization for renewable energy activities. The term also means the area covered by the authorization.


*Right-of-way (ROW) grant* means an authorization issued by BOEM under this part to use a portion of the OCS for the construction and use of a cable or pipeline for the purpose of gathering, transmitting, distributing, or otherwise transporting electricity or other energy product generated or produced from renewable energy, but does not constitute a project easement under this part. The term also means the area c

overed by the authorization.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of the Interior or an official authorized to act on the Secretary's behalf.


*Significant archaeological resource* means an archaeological resource that meets the criteria of significance for eligibility for listing in the National Register of Historic Places, as defined in 36 CFR 60.4.


*Site assessment activities* mean those initial activities conducted to assess an area on the OCS, such as resource assessment surveys (*e.g.,* meteorological and oceanographic) or technology testing, involving the installation of bottom-founded facilities.


*We, us,* and *our* refer to BOEM, or its possessive, depending on the context.


*You* and *your* means an applicant, lessee, the operator, or designated operator, ROW grant holder or RUE grant holder under this part, or the designated agent of any of these, or the possessive of each, depending on the context. The terms *you* and *your* also include contractors and subcontractors of the entities specified in the preceding sentence.






