# ยง 1206.42   Assessments.

(a) The funds to cover the Board's expenses shall be paid from assessments on first handlers and importers, donations from any person not subject to assessments under this Order, and other funds available to the Board and subject to the limitations contained therein.


(b) *Assessment rate.* The assessment rate on mangos shall be three quarters of a cent ($0.0075) per pound (or $0.0165 per kg). The assessment rates will be reviewed periodically and may be modified by the Board with the approval of the Department.




(c) *Domestic mangos.* First handlers of domestic mangos are required to pay assessments on all mangos handled for the U.S. market. This includes mangos of the first handler's own production.


(d) *Imported mangos.* Each importer of mangos shall pay an assessment to the Board through Customs on mangos imported for marketing in the United States.


(1) The import assessment shall be uniformly applied to imported mangos that are identified by the numbers in the 0804.50.4045, 0804.50.4055, 0804.50.6045, and 0804.50.6055 Harmonized Tariff Schedule (HTS) of the United States and shall be the same or equivalent to the rate of mangos produced in the United States.


(2) In the event that any HTS number subject to assessment is changed and such change is merely a replacement of a previous number and has no impact on the description of mangos, assessments will continue to be collected based on the new numbers.


(3) The assessments due on imported mangos shall be paid when they enter or are withdrawn for consumption in the United States.




(e) Each person responsible for remitting assessments under paragraph (c) of this section shall remit the amounts due to the Board's office on a monthly basis no later than the fifteenth day of the month following the month in which the mangos were marketed, in such manner as prescribed by the Board.


(f) A late payment charge shall be imposed on any person failing to remit to the Board the total amount for which the person is liable by the payment due date established under this section. The amount of the late payment charge shall be prescribed by the Department.


(g) An additional charge shall be imposed on any person subject to a late payment charge in the form of interest on the outstanding portion of any amount for which the person is liable. The rate of interest shall be prescribed by the Department.


(h) Persons failing to remit total assessments due in a timely manner may also be subject to actions under federal debt collection procedures.


(i) The Board may authorize other organizations to collect assessments on its behalf with the approval of the Department.



---

[N] [68 FR 58554, Oct. 9, 2003, as amended at 77 FR 21846, Apr. 12, 2012; 84 FR 5345, Feb. 21, 2019; 86 FR 11097, Feb. 24, 2021]




