# ยง 774.18   Interest rate, terms and security requirements.

(a) *Interest rate.* (1) The interest rate on the loan will be zero percent for 36 months or until the date of settlement of, completion of, or final distribution of assets in the bankruptcy proceeding involving AgriBiotech, whichever comes first. 


(2) Thereafter interest will begin to accrue at the regular rate for an Agency Farm operating-direct loan (available in any Agency office). 


(b) *Terms.* (1) Loans shall be due and payable upon the earlier of the settlement of the bankruptcy claim or 36 months from the date of the note.


(2) However, any principal remaining thereafter will be amortized over a term of 7 years at the Farm operating-direct loan interest rate (available in any Agency office). If the loan is not paid in full during this time and default occurs, servicing will proceed in accordance with 7 CFR part 766, subpart H.


(c) *Security requirements.* (1) The Agency will require a first position pledge and assignment of the applicant's monetary claim in the AgriBiotech bankruptcy estate to secure the loan. 


(2) If the applicant has seed remaining in their possession that was produced under contract to AgriBiotech, the applicant also will provide the Agency with a first lien position on this seed. It is the responsibility of the applicant to negotiate with any existing lienholders to secure the Agency's first lien position. 



---

[N] [65 FR 76119, Dec. 6, 2000, as amended at 68 FR 7696, Feb. 18, 2003; 72 FR 64121, Nov. 15, 2007]




