# ยง 128.5   Answer and demand for oral hearing.

(a) *When to answer.* The respondent is required to answer the charging letter within 30 days after service. 


(b) *Contents of answer.* An answer must be responsive to the charging letter. It must fully set forth the nature of the respondent's defense or defenses. In the answer, the respondent must admit or deny specifically each separate allegation of the charging letter, unless the respondent is without knowledge, in which case the respondent's answer shall so state and the statement shall operate as denial. Failure to deny or controvert any particular allegation will be deemed an admission thereof. The answer may set forth such additional or new matter as the respondent believes support a defense or claim of mitigation. Any defense or partial defense not specifically set forth in an answer shall be deemed waived. Evidence offered thereon by the respondent at a hearing may be refused except upon good cause being shown. If the respondent does not demand an oral hearing, he or she shall transmit, within seven (7) days after the service of his or her answer, original or photocopies of all correspondence, papers, records, affidavits, and other documentary or written evidence having any bearing upon or connection with the matters in issue. If any such materials are in language other than English, translations into English shall be submitted at the same time.


(c) *Submission of answer.* The answer, written demand for oral hearing (if any) and supporting evidence required by paragraph (b) of this section shall be in duplicate and mailed or delivered to the designated Administrative Law Judge. A copy shall be simultaneously mailed to the Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Defense Trade Controls, SA-1, Room 1200, Department of State, Washington, DC 20522-0112, or delivered to 2401 Street NW., Washington, DC addressed to the Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Defense Trade Controls, SA-1, Room 1200, Department of State, Washington, DC 20037.



---

[N] [58 FR 39320, July 22, 1993, as amended at 61 FR 48832, Sept. 17, 1996; 71 FR 20551, Apr. 21, 2006; 79 FR 8089, Feb. 11, 2014]




