# § 412.331   Determining hospital-specific rates in cases of hospital merger, consolidation, or dissolution.

(a) *New hospital merger or consolidation.* If, after a new hospital accepts its first patient but before the end of its base year, it merges with one or more existing hospitals, and two or more separately located hospital campuses are maintained, the hospital-specific rate and payment determination for the merged entity are determined as follows—


(1) *Post-merger base year payment methodology.* The new campus is paid based on reasonable costs until the end of its base year. The existing campus remains on its previous payment methodology until the end of the new campus' base year. Effective with the first cost reporting period beginning after the end of the new campus' base year, the intermediary determines a hospital-specific rate applicable to the new campus in accordance with § 412.328, and then determines a revised hospital-specific rate for the merged entity in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) *Revised hospital-specific rate.* Using each hospital's base period data, the intermediary determines a combined average discharge-weighted hospital-specific rate.


(3) *Post-base year payment determination.* To determine the applicable payment methodology under § 412.336 and for payment purposes under § 412.340 or § 412.344, the discharge-weighted hospital-specific rate determined by the intermediary is compared to the Federal rate. The revised payment methodology is effective on the first day of the cost reporting period beginning after the end of the new campus' base year.


(b) *Hospital merger or consolidation.* If, after the base year, two or more hospitals merge or consolidate into one hospital as provided for under § 413.134(k) of this chapter and the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section do not apply, the intermediary determines a revised hospital-specific rate applicable to the combined facility under § 412.328, which is effective beginning with the date of merger or consolidation. The following rules apply to the revised hospital-specific rate and payment determination: 


(1) *Revised hospital-specific rate.* Using each hospital's base period data, the intermediary determines a combined average discharge weighted hospital-specific rate.


(2) *Payment determination.* The discharge-weighted hospital-specific rate determined by the intermediary is compared to the Federal rate to establish the appropriate payment methodology under § 412.336 and for payment purposes under §§ 412.340 or 412.344. The revised payment methodology is effective as of the date of merger or consolidation.


(3) *Old capital cost determination.* The capital-related costs related to the assets of each merged or consolidated hospital as of December 31, 1990 are recognized as old capital costs during the transition period. If the hospital is paid under the hold-harmless methodology after merger or consolidation, only that original base year old capital is eligible for hold-harmless payments.


(c) *Hospital dissolution.* If a hospital separates into two or more hospitals that are subject to capital payments under this subpart after the base year, the intermediary determines new hospital-specific rates for each separate hospital under the provisions of § 412.328 effective as of the date of the dissolution. The new hospital-specific rates are determined as follows:


(1) *Hospital-specific rate*—(i) *Adequate base year data.* The intermediary determines whether the base year capital-related cost data and necessary statistical records are adequate to reconstruct the cost and other data required under § 412.328 from the former hospital's financial records to determine the hospital-specific rates for each facility. If the data are adequate, the intermediary uses the former hospital's base period to determine the hospital-specific rate for each separate hospital.


(ii) *Inadequate original base year data.* If the intermediary determines that the base period data for the former hospital is inadequate to establish separate hospital-specific rates, the intermediary establishes a new base period for each hospital. The new base period is each hospital's first 12-month or longer cost reporting period (or combination of cost reporting periods covering at least 12 months) immediately following separation of the hospitals. The intermediary determines the hospital-specific rate for each hospital using the new base period under § 412.328.


(2) *Payment determinations.* The intermediary applies the payment methodology provisions of § 412.336. The revised payment determination is effective as of the date of the hospital's dissolution.


(3) *Old capital cost determination.* In determining the old capital costs for each hospital, the amount recognized as old capital is limited to the allowable capital-related costs attributable to assets that were in use for patient care as of December 31, 1990, and the hospitals are subject to all other transition period rules of this subpart.



---

[N] [57 FR 39828, Sept. 1, 1992, as amended at 63 FR 41004, July 31, 1998]




