# ยง 1060.505   Other procedures.

(a) *Your testing.* The procedures in this part apply for all testing you do to show compliance with emission standards, with certain exceptions listed in this section.


(b) *Our testing.* These procedures generally apply for testing that we do to determine if your equipment complies with applicable emission standards. We may perform other testing as allowed by the Clean Air Act.


(c) *Exceptions.* We may allow or require you to use procedures other than those specified in this part in the following cases:


(1) You may request to use special procedures if your equipment cannot be tested using the specified procedures. We will approve your request if we determine that it would produce emission measurements that represent in-use operation and we determine that it can be used to show compliance with the requirements of the standard-setting part.


(2) You may ask to use emission data collected using other procedures, such as those of the California Air Resources Board or the International Organization for Standardization. We will approve this only if you show us that using these other procedures does not affect your ability to show compliance with the applicable emission standards. This generally requires emission levels to be far enough below the applicable emission standards so any test differences do not affect your ability to state unconditionally that your equipment will meet all applicable emission standards when tested using the specified test procedures.


(3) You may request to use alternate procedures that are equivalent to the specified procedures, or procedures that are more accurate or more precise than the specified procedures. We may perform tests with your equipment using either the approved alternate procedures or the specified procedures. See 40 CFR 1065.12 for a description of the information that is generally required for such alternate procedures.


(4) The test procedures are specified for gasoline-fueled equipment. If your equipment will use another volatile liquid fuel instead of gasoline, use a test fuel that is representative of the fuel that will be used with the equipment in use. You may ask us to approve other changes to the test procedures to reflect the effects of using a fuel other than gasoline.


(d) *Approval.* If we require you to request approval to use other procedures under paragraph (c) of this section, you may not use them until we approve your request.



---

[N] [73 FR 59298, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 86 FR 34531, June 29, 2021]




