# § 266.508   Shipping non-creditable hazardous waste pharmaceuticals from a healthcare facility or evaluated hazardous waste pharmaceuticals from a reverse distributor.

(a) *Shipping non-creditable hazardous waste pharmaceuticals or evaluated hazardous waste pharmaceuticals.* A healthcare facility must ship non-creditable hazardous waste pharmaceuticals and a reverse distributor must ship evaluated hazardous waste pharmaceuticals off-site to a designated facility (such as a permitted or interim status treatment, storage, or disposal facility) in compliance with:


(1) The following pre-transport requirements, before transporting or offering for transport off-site:


(i) *Packaging.* Package the waste in accordance with the applicable Department of Transportation regulations on hazardous materials under 49 CFR parts 173, 178, and 180.


(ii) *Labeling.* Label each package in accordance with the applicable Department of Transportation regulations on hazardous materials under 49 CFR part 172 subpart E.


(iii) *Marking.* (A) Mark each package of hazardous waste pharmaceuticals in accordance with the applicable Department of Transportation (DOT) regulations on hazardous materials under 49 CFR part 172 subpart D;


(B) Mark each container of 119 gallons or less used in such transportation with the following words and information in accordance with the requirements of 49 CFR 172.304:


HAZARDOUS WASTE—Federal Law Prohibits Improper Disposal. If found, contact the nearest police or public safety authority or the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.


(C) Lab packs that will be incinerated in compliance with § 268.42(c) of this subchapter are not required to be marked with EPA hazardous waste numbers (*i.e.,* hazardous waste codes), except D004, D005, D006, D007, D008, D010, and D011, where applicable. A nationally recognized electronic system, such as bar coding or radio frequency identification tag, may be used to identify the applicable EPA hazardous waste numbers (*i.e.,* hazardous waste codes).




(iv) *Placarding.* Placard or offer the initial transporter the appropriate placards according to Department of Transportation regulations for hazardous materials under 49 CFR part 172 subpart F.


(2) The manifest requirements of 40 CFR part 262 subpart B, except that:




(i) A healthcare facility shipping noncreditable hazardous waste pharmaceuticals is not required to list all applicable EPA hazardous waste numbers (*i.e.,* hazardous waste codes) in Item 13 of EPA Form 8700-22.




(ii) A healthcare facility shipping non-creditable hazardous waste pharmaceuticals must write the word “PHARMS” in Item 13 of EPA Form 8700-22.




(b) *Exporting non-creditable hazardous waste pharmaceuticals or evaluated hazardous waste pharmaceuticals.* A healthcare facility or reverse distributor that exports non-creditable hazardous waste pharmaceuticals or evaluated hazardous waste pharmaceuticals is subject to 40 CFR part 262 subpart H.


(c) *Importing non-creditable hazardous waste pharmaceuticals or evaluated hazardous waste pharmaceuticals.* Any person that imports non-creditable hazardous waste pharmaceuticals or evaluated hazardous waste pharmaceuticals is subject to 40 CFR part 262 subpart H. A healthcare facility or reverse distributor may not accept imported non-creditable hazardous waste pharmaceuticals or evaluated hazardous waste pharmaceuticals unless they have a permit or interim status that allows them to accept hazardous waste from off site.





---

[N] [84 FR 5940, Feb. 22, 2019, as amended at 88 FR 54113, Aug. 9, 2023; 88 FR 84713, Dec. 6, 2023]












