# ยง 206.208   Direct Federal assistance.

(a) *General.* When the State and local government lack the capability to perform or to contract for eligible emergency work and/or debris removal, under sections 402(1) and (4), 403, 407, 502(a)(1), (5) and (7) of the Act, the recipient may request that the work be accomplished by a Federal agency. Such assistance is subject to the cost sharing provisions outlined in ยง 206.203(b) of this subpart. Direct Federal assistance is also subject to the eligibility criteria contained in Subpart H of these regulations. FEMA will reimburse other Federal agencies in accordance with Subpart A of these regulations.


(b) *Requests for assistance.* All requests for direct Federal assistance shall be submitted by the recipient to the Regional Administrator and shall include:


(1) A written agreement that the State will:


(i) Provide without cost to the United States all lands, easements and rights-of-ways necessary to accomplish the approved work;


(ii) Hold and save the United States free from damages due to the requested work, and shall indemnify the Federal Government against any claims arising from such work;


(iii) Provide reimbursement to FEMA for the nonFederal share of the cost of such work in accordance with the provisions of the FEMA-State Agreement; and


(iv) Assist the performing Federal agency in all support and local jurisdictional matters.


(2) A statement as to the reasons the State and the local government cannot perform or contract for performance of the requested work.


(3) A written agreement from an eligible applicant that such applicant will be responsible for the items in subparagraph (b)(1) (i) and (ii) of this section, in the event that a State is legally unable to provide the written agreement.


(c) *Implementation.* (1) If the Regional Administrator approves the request, a mission assignment will be issued to the appropriate Federal agency. The mission assignment letter to the agency will define the scope of eligible work, the estimated cost of the eligible work and the billing period frequency. The Federal agency must not exceed the approved funding limit without the authorization of the Regional Administrator.


(2) If all or any part of the requested work falls within the statutory authority of another Federal agency, the Regional Administrator shall not approve that portion of the work. In such case, the unapproved portion of the request will be referred to the appropriate agency for action.


(3) If an impact-State requests assistance in providing evacuation and sheltering support outside an impact-State, FEMA may directly reimburse a host-State for such eligible costs through a grant to a host-State under an impact-State's declaration, consistent with ยง 206.202(f)(1). FEMA may award a grant to a host-State when FEMA determines that a host-State has sufficient capability to meet some or all of the sheltering and/or evacuation needs of an impact-State, and a host-State agrees in writing to provide such support to an impact-State.


(d) *Time limitation.* The time limitation for completion of work by a Federal agency under a mission assignment is 60 days after the President's declaration. Based on extenuating circumstances or unusual project requirements, the Regional Administrator may extend this time limitation.


(e) *Project management.* (1) The performing Federal agency shall ensure that the work is completed in accordance with the Regional Administrator's approved scope of work, costs and time limitations. The performing Federal agency shall also keep the Regional Administrator and recipient advised of work progress and other project developments. It is the responsibility of the performing Federal agency to ensure compliance with applicable Federal, State and local legal requirements. A final inspection report will be completed upon termination of all direct Federal assistance work. Final inspection reports shall be signed by a representative of the performing Federal agency and the State. Once the final eligible cost is determined (including Federal agency overhead), the State will be billed for the nonFederal share of the mission assignment in accordance with the cost sharing provisions of the FEMA-State Agreement.


(2) Pursuant to the agreements provided in the request for assistance the recipient shall assist the performing Federal agency in all State and local jurisdictional matters. These matters include securing local building permits and rights of entry, control of traffic and pedestrians, and compliance with local building ordinances.



---

[N] [55 FR 2304, Jan. 23, 1990, as amended at 64 FR 55161, Oct. 12, 1999; 74 FR 60214, Nov. 20, 2009; 82 FR 43, Jan. 3, 2017]




