# § 7.147   Statement of composition.

(a) A statement of composition is required to appear on the label for malt beverage specialty products, as defined in § 7.141(b), which are not known to the trade under a particular designation. For example, the addition of flavoring materials, colors, or artificial sweeteners may change the class and type of the malt beverage. The statement of composition along with a distinctive or fanciful name serves as the class and type designation for these products.


(b) When required by this part, a statement of composition must contain all of the following information, as applicable:


(1) *Identify the base class and/or type designation.* The statement of composition must clearly identify the base class and/or type designation of the malt beverage product (*e.g.,* “beer,” “lager beer,” “lager,” “ale,” “porter,” “stout,” or “malt beverage”).


(2) *Identify added flavoring material(s) used before, during, and after fermentation.* The statement of composition must disclose fermentable or non-fermentable flavoring materials added to the malt beverage base class.


(i) If the flavoring material is used before or during the fermentation process, the statement of composition must indicate that the malt beverage was fermented or brewed with the flavoring material (such as “Beer Fermented with grapefruit juice” or “Grapefruit Ale”). If the flavoring material is added after fermentation, the statement of composition must describe that process, using terms such as “added,” “with,” “infused,” or “flavored” (such as “Grapefruit-flavored ale.”).


(ii) If a single flavoring material is used in the production of the malt beverage product, the flavoring material may be specifically identified (such as “Ale Fermented with grapefruit juice”) or generally referenced (such as “Ale with natural flavor”). If two or more flavoring materials are used in the production of the malt beverage, each flavoring material may be specifically identified (such as “lemon juice, kiwi juice” or “lemon and kiwi juice”) or the characterizing flavoring material may be specifically identified and the remaining flavoring materials may be generally referenced (such as “kiwi and other natural and artificial flavor(s)”), or all flavors may be generally referenced (such as “with artificial flavors”).


(3) *Identify added coloring material(s).* The statement of composition must disclose the addition of coloring material(s), whether added directly or through flavoring material(s). The coloring materials may be identified specifically (such as “caramel color,” “FD&C Red #40,” “annatto,” etc.) or as a general statement, such as “Contains certified color” for colors approved under 21 CFR subpart 74 or “artificially colored” to indicate the presence of any one or a combination of coloring material(s). However, FD&C Yellow No. 5, carmine, and cochineal extract require specific disclosure in accordance with § 7.63(b)(1) and (2) and that specific disclosure may appear either in the statement of composition or elsewhere in accordance with those sections.


(4) *Identify added artificial sweeteners.* The statement of composition must disclose any artificial sweetener that is added to a malt beverage product, whether the artificial sweetener is added directly or through flavoring material(s). The artificial sweetener may be identified specifically by either generic name or trademarked brand name, or as a general statement (such as “artificially sweetened”) to indicate the presence of any one or combination of artificial sweeteners. However, if aspartame is used, an additional warning statement is required in accordance with § 7.63(b)(4).




