# ยง 910.510   Financial statements.

(a) *Financial statements.* If available, the auditee must submit financial statements that reflect its financial position, results of operations or changes in net assets, and, where appropriate, cash flows for the fiscal year audited. The financial statements must be for the same organizational unit and fiscal year that is chosen to meet the requirements of this Part. However, for-profit entity-wide financial statements may also include departments, agencies, and other organizational units that have separate audits in accordance with ยง 910.514 Scope of audit, paragraph (a) and prepare separate financial statements.


(b) *Schedule of expenditures of DOE awards.* The auditee must prepare a schedule of expenditures of DOE awards for the period covered by the auditee's fiscal year which must include the total DOE awards expended as determined in accordance with ยง 910.502 Basis for determining DOE awards expended. While not required, the auditee may choose to provide information requested by DOE and pass- through entities to make the schedule easier to use. For example, when a DOE program has multiple DOE award years, the auditee may list the amount of DOE awards expended for each DOE award year separately. At a minimum, the schedule must:


(1) List individual DOE programs. For a cluster of programs, provide the cluster name, list individual DOE programs within the cluster of programs. For R&D, total DOE awards expended must be shown by individual DOE award and major subdivision within DOE. For example, the National Institutes of Health is a major subdivision in the Department of Health and Human Services.


(2) Not applicable.


(3) Provide total DOE awards expended for each individual DOE program and the CFDA number For a cluster of programs also provide the total for the cluster.


(4) Not applicable.


(5) Not applicable.


(6) Include notes that describe that significant accounting policies used in preparing the schedule, and note whether or not the for-profit entity elected to use the 10% de minimis cost rate as covered in 2 CFR 200.414 Indirect (F&A) costs.




