# § 731.105   Authority to take suitability actions in cases involving the competitive service or career Senior Executive Service.

(a) OPM or an agency acting under delegated authority may take a suitability action in connection with any application for, or appointment to, the competitive service or career Senior Executive Service.


(1) OPM's or an agency's authority to complete a suitability action continues when an application is withdrawn, when an offer of employment is withdrawn, or when an individual appointed separates from employment.


(2) OPM's or an agency's authority to take a suitability action includes the case of an application for or appointment to the competitive service or career Senior Executive Service from another type of position when a prior investigation is being reciprocally accepted as described in § 731.104(a).


(b) OPM may take a suitability action under this part against an *applicant* or *appointee* based on the criteria in § 731.202.


(c) Except as limited by § 731.103(b), (d), and (f), an agency, exercising delegated authority, may take a suitability action under this part against an *applicant* or *appointee* based on the criteria of § 731.202.


(d) Only OPM may take a suitability action under this part against an *employee* in the competitive service or career Senior Executive Service based on the criteria of § 731.202(b)(3), (7), or (8).


(e) An agency may not take a suitability action against an *employee* in the competitive service or career Senior Executive Service. Nothing in this part precludes an agency from taking an adverse action against an employee under the procedures and standards of 5 CFR part 752 or terminating a probationary employee under the procedures of 5 CFR part 315 or 359 or under agency specific authorities. An agency must notify OPM to the extent required in § 731.103(d) and (f) if it wants to take, or has taken, action under these authorities. OPM retains the right to take a suitability action even in those cases where the agency makes an adjudicative determination under another authority.






