# § 455.101   Definitions.

*Additional disclosable party* means, with respect to a nursing facility defined in section 1919(a) of the Act, any person or entity who—


(1) Exercises operational, financial, or managerial control over the facility or a part thereof, or provides policies or procedures for any of the operations of the facility, or provides financial or cash management services to the facility;


(2) Leases or subleases real property to the facility, or owns a whole or part interest equal to or exceeding 5 percent of the total value of such real property; or


(3) Provides management or administrative services, management or clinical consulting services, or accounting or financial services to the facility.




*Affiliation* means, for purposes of applying § 455.107, any of the following:


(1) A 5 percent or greater direct or indirect ownership interest that an individual or entity has in another organization.


(2) A general or limited partnership interest (regardless of the percentage) that an individual or entity has in another organization.


(3) An interest in which an individual or entity exercises operational or managerial control over, or directly or indirectly conducts, the day-to-day operations of another organization (including, for purposes of this paragraph (3), sole proprietorships), either under contract or through some other arrangement, regardless of whether or not the managing individual or entity is a W-2 employee of the organization.


(4) An interest in which an individual is acting as an officer or director of a corporation.


(5) Any payment assignment relationship under § 447.10(g) of this chapter.




*Agent* means any person who has been delegated the authority to obligate or act on behalf of a provider.


*Disclosable event* means, for purposes of § 455.107, any of the following:


(1) Currently has an uncollected debt to Medicare, Medicaid, or CHIP, regardless of—


(i) The amount of the debt;


(ii) Whether the debt is currently being repaid (for example, as part of a repayment plan); or


(iii) Whether the debt is currently being appealed;


(2) Has been or is subject to a payment suspension under a federal health care program (as that latter term is defined in section 1128B(f) of the Act), regardless of when the payment suspension occurred or was imposed;


(3) Has been or is excluded by the OIG from participation in Medicare, Medicaid, or CHIP, regardless of whether the exclusion is currently being appealed or when the exclusion occurred or was imposed; or


(4) Has had its Medicare, Medicaid, or CHIP enrollment denied, revoked or terminated, regardless of—


(i) The reason for the denial, revocation, or termination;


(ii) Whether the denial, revocation, or termination is currently being appealed; or


(iii) When the denial, revocation, or termination occurred or was imposed.




*Disclosing entity* means a Medicaid provider (other than an individual practitioner or group of practitioners), or a fiscal agent.


*Other disclosing entity* means any other Medicaid disclosing entity and any entity that does not participate in Medicaid, but is required to disclose certain ownership and control information because of participation in any of the programs established under title V, XVIII, or XX of the Act. This includes:


(a) Any hospital, skilled nursing facility, home health agency, independent clinical laboratory, renal disease facility, rural health clinic, or health maintenance organization that participates in Medicare (title XVIII);


(b) Any Medicare intermediary or carrier; and


(c) Any entity (other than an individual practitioner or group of practitioners) that furnishes, or arranges for the furnishing of, health-related services for which it claims payment under any plan or program established under title V or title XX of the Act.


*Fiscal agent* means a contractor that processes or pays vendor claims on behalf of the Medicaid agency.


*Group of practitioners* means two or more health care practitioners who practice their profession at a common location (whether or not they share common facilities, common supporting staff, or common equipment). 


*Health insuring organization (HIO)* has the meaning specified in § 438.2.


*Indirect ownership interest* means an ownership interest in an entity that has an ownership interest in the disclosing entity. This term includes an ownership interest in any entity that has an indirect ownership interest in the disclosing entity. 


*Managed care entity (MCE)* means managed care organizations (MCOs), PIHPs, PAHPs, PCCMs, and HIOs.




*Managing employee* means—


(1) A general manager, business manager, administrator, director, or other individual who exercises operational or managerial control over, or who directly or indirectly conducts, the day-to-day operation of an institution, organization, or agency, either under contract or through some other arrangement, whether or not the individual is a W-2 employee of the institution, organization, or agency; or


(2) With respect to the additional requirements at § 455.104(e) for a nursing facility defined in section 1919(a) of the Act, an individual, including a general manager, business manager, administrator, director, or consultant, who directly or indirectly manages, advises, or supervises any element of the practices, finances, or operations of the facility.


*Organizational structure* means, with respect to a nursing facility defined in section 1919(a) of the Act, in the case of any of the following:


(1) *A corporation.* The officers, directors, and shareholders of the corporation who have an ownership interest in the corporation which is equal to or exceeds 5 percent.


(2) *A limited liability company.* The members and managers of the limited liability company including, as applicable, what percentage each member and manager has of the ownership interest in the limited liability company.


(3) *A general partnership.* The partners of the general partnership.


(4) *A limited partnership.* The general partners and any limited partners of the limited partnership who have an ownership interest in the limited partnership which is equal to or exceeds 10 percent.


(5) *A trust.* The trustees of the trust.


(6) *An individual.* Contact information for the individual.


*Ownership interest* means the possession of equity in the capital, the stock, or the profits of the disclosing entity.


*Person with an ownership or control interest* means a person or corporation that—


(a) Has an ownership interest totaling 5 percent or more in a disclosing entity;


(b) Has an indirect ownership interest equal to 5 percent or more in a disclosing entity;


(c) Has a combination of direct and indirect ownership interests equal to 5 percent or more in a disclosing entity;


(d) Owns an interest of 5 percent or more in any mortgage, deed of trust, note, or other obligation secured by the disclosing entity if that interest equals at least 5 percent of the value of the property or assets of the disclosing entity;


(e) Is an officer or director of a disclosing entity that is organized as a corporation; or


(f) Is a partner in a disclosing entity that is organized as a partnership.


*Prepaid ambulatory health plan (PAHP)* has the meaning specified in § 438.2.


*Prepaid inpatient health plan (PIHP)* has the meaning specified in § 438.2.


*Primary care case manager (PCCM)* has the meaning specified in § 438.2.


*Significant business transaction* means any business transaction or series of transactions that, during any one fiscal year, exceed the lesser of $25,000 and 5 percent of a provider's total operating expenses.


*Subcontractor* means—


(a) An individual, agency, or organization to which a disclosing entity has contracted or delegated some of its management functions or responsibilities of providing medical care to its patients; or


(b) An individual, agency, or organization with which a fiscal agent has entered into a contract, agreement, purchase order, or lease (or leases of real property) to obtain space, supplies, equipment, or services provided under the Medicaid agreement.


*Supplier* means an individual, agency, or organization from which a provider purchases goods and services used in carrying out its responsibilities under Medicaid (e.g., a commercial laundry, a manufacturer of hospital beds, or a pharmaceutical firm).


*Termination* means—


(1) For a—


(i) Medicaid or CHIP provider, a State Medicaid program or CHIP has taken an action to revoke the provider's billing privileges, and the provider has exhausted all applicable appeal rights or the timeline for appeal has expired; and


(ii) Medicare provider, supplier or eligible professional, the Medicare program has revoked the provider or supplier's billing privileges, and the provider has exhausted all applicable appeal rights or the timeline for appeal has expired.


(2)(i) In all three programs, there is no expectation on the part of the provider or supplier or the State or Medicare program that the revocation is temporary.


(ii) The provider, supplier, or eligible professional will be required to reenroll with the applicable program if they wish billing privileges to be reinstated.


(3) The requirement for termination applies in cases where providers, suppliers, or eligible professionals were terminated or had their billing privileges revoked for cause which may include, but is not limited to—


(i) Fraud;


(ii) Integrity; or


(iii) Quality.


*Wholly owned supplier* means a supplier whose total ownership interest is held by a provider or by a person, persons, or other entity with an ownership or control interest in a provider. 



---

[N] [44 FR 41644, July 17, 1979, as amended at 51 FR 34788, Sept. 30, 1986; 76 FR 5967, Feb. 2, 2011; 84 FR 47856, Sept. 10, 2019; 88 FR 80168, Nov. 17, 2023] 




