# § 27.65   Climb: all engines operating.

(a) For rotorcraft other than helicopters—


(1) The steady rate of climb, at *V*_Y,_ must be determined—


(i) With maximum continuous power on each engine; 


(ii) With the landing gear retracted; and 


(iii) For the weights, altitudes, and temperatures for which certification is requested; and 


(2) The climb gradient, at the rate of climb determined in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section, must be either—


(i) At least 1:10 if the horizontal distance required to take off and climb over a 50-foot obstacle is determined for each weight, altitude, and temperature within the range for which certification is requested; or 


(ii) At least 1:6 under standard sea level conditions. 


(b) Each helicopter must meet the following requirements: 


(1) V_Y_ must be determined—


(i) For standard sea level conditions; 


(ii) At maximum weight; and 


(iii) With maximum continuous power on each engine. 


(2) The steady rate of climb must be determined—


(i) At the climb speed selected by the applicant at or below V_NE_; 


(ii) Within the range from sea level up to the maximum altitude for which certification is requested;


(iii) For the weights and temperatures that correspond to the altitude range set forth in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section and for which certification is requested; and 


(iv) With maximum continuous power on each engine.



---

[N] [Doc. No. 5074, 29 FR 15695, Nov. 24, 1964, as amended by Amdt. 27-14, 43 FR 2324, Jan. 16, 1978; Amdt. 27-33, 61 FR 21907, May 10, 1996] 




