# ยง 725.3   Definitions.

As used in this part: 


(a) *Access Permit* means a permit, issued by the Administrator authorizing access by the named permittee to Restricted Data applicable to civil uses of atomic energy in accordance with the terms and conditions stated on the permit. 


(b) *Act* means the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (68 Stat. 919), including any amendments thereto. 


(c) *Category* means a category of Restricted Data designated in appendix A to the regulations in this part. 




(d) *Director of the Office of Environment, Health, Safety and Security* means the DOE official to whom the Secretary assigns the authority to develop policy and technical assistance; safety analysis; and organizational safety and security programs, or the Director's duly authorized representatives.


(e) *DOE* means the Department of Energy. 


(f) *Permittee* means the holder of a permit issued pursuant to the regulations in this part. 


(g) *Person* means (1) any individual, corporation, partnership, firm, association, trust, estate, public or private institution, group, Government agency other than DOE, any state or any political subdivision of, or any political entity within a state, or other entity; and (2) any legal successor, representative, agent, or agency of the foregoing. 


(h) *Restricted Data* means all data concerning (1) design, manufacture or utilization of atomic weapons; (2) the production of special nuclear material; or (3) the use of special nuclear material in the production of energy, but shall not include data declassified or removed from the Restricted Data category pursuant to section 142 of the Act. 


(i) *Government Confidential Commercial Information* means sensitive commercial information not including Restricted Data, generated by the government, the release of which could put the government at a competitive disadvantage in providing enrichment services. 



---

[N] [41 FR 56778, Dec. 30, 1976, as amended at 52 FR 30139, Aug. 13, 1987; 71 FR 68732, Nov. 28, 2006; 88 FR 41293, June 26, 2023]




