# § 63.3164   What are the general requirements for performance tests?

(a) You must conduct each applicable performance test required by §§ 63.3160, 63.3163, and 63.3171 according to the requirements in § 63.7(e)(1) and under the conditions in this section unless you obtain a waiver of the performance test according to the provisions in § 63.7(h).


(1) *Representative coating operation operating conditions.* You must conduct the performance test under representative operating conditions for the coating operation. Before January 5, 2021, operations during periods of SSM, and during periods of nonoperation do not constitute representative conditions. You must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and explain why the conditions represent normal operation. On and after January 5, 2021, operations during periods of startup, shutdown, or nonoperation do not constitute representative conditions for purposes of conducting a performance test. The owner or operator may not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. You must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and explain why the conditions represent normal operation. Upon request, you must make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.


(2) *Representative emission capture system and add-on control device operating conditions.* You must conduct the performance test when the emission capture system and add-on control device are operating at a representative flow rate, and the add-on control device is operating at a representative inlet concentration. You must record information that is necessary to document emission capture system and add-on control device operating conditions during the test and explain why the conditions represent normal operation. 


(b) You must conduct each performance test of an emission capture system according to the requirements in § 63.3165. You must conduct each performance test of an add-on control device according to the requirements in § 63.3166. 



---

[N] [69 FR 22623, Apr. 26, 2004, as amended at 85 FR 41130, July 8, 2020]




