# ยง 110.156   Randall Bay, Freeport, Long Island, N.Y.

(a) *The anchorage grounds.* Southward of a line 312 feet south of and parallel to the south side of Casino Street; eastward of a line 215 feet east of and parallel to the east side of West Side Avenue, said line extending southerly to a point 233 feet north of the prolonged north side of Clinton Street; northeastward of a line from the last-mentioned point to a point 243 feet southerly of the prolonged south side of Clinton Street and 210 feet east of the east side of Prospect Street; eastward of a line 210 feet east of and parallel to the east side of Prospect Street; northward of a line 25 feet north of and parallel to the prolonged north side of Suffolk Street; westward of a line 210 feet west of and parallel to the west side of South Long Beach Avenue, said line extending northerly to a point 222 feet south of the prolonged south side of Queens Street; southwestward of a line from the last-mentioned point to a point 74 feet northerly of the prolonged north side of Queens Street and 120 feet west of the west side of Roosevelt Avenue; and westward of a line 120 feet west of and parallel to the west side of Roosevelt Avenue. 


(b) *The regulations.* (1) When applied for, a berth in this anchorage, if available, may be assigned to any vessel by the Captain of the Port of Long Island Sound. 


(2) The Captain of the Port is authorized to issue permits for maintaining mooring buoys within the anchorage. The method of anchoring these buoys shall be as prescribed by the Captain of the Port. 


(3) No vessel shall anchor in the anchorage in such manner as to interfere with the use of a duly authorized mooring buoy. 


(4) No vessel shall be navigated within the anchorage at a speed exceeding six knots. 


(5) In case of emergencies, the Captain of the Port is authorized to shift the position of any unattended vessel moored in or near the anchorage. 



---

[N] [CGFR 67-46, 32 FR 17728, Dec. 12, 1967, as amended by USCG-2012-0306, 77 FR 37313, June 21, 2012]




