# § 31.3302(b)-1   Additional credit against tax.

(a) *In general.* In addition to the credit against the tax allowable for contributions actually paid to State unemployment funds (see § 31.3302(a)-1), the taxpayer may be entitled to a credit under section 3302(b). This additional credit is allowable to the taxpayer with respect to the amount of contributions which he is relieved from paying to an unemployment fund under the provisions of a State law which have been certified for the taxable year as provided in section 3303. Generally, an additional credit is available to an employer, if under the provisions of a State law which have been so certified he is permitted to pay contributions to such State for the taxable year, or portion thereof, at a rate which is both lower than the highest rate applied under such law in such year and lower than 2.7 percent. No additional credit is allowable except with respect to a State law certified by the Secretary of Labor for the taxable year as provided in section 3303 (or with respect to any provisions thereof so certified).


(b) *Method of computing amount of additional credit allowable with respect to a State law*—(1) *Certification of a State law as a whole.* In ascertaining the additional credit for any taxable year with respect to a particular State law which the Secretary of Labor certifies as a whole to the Secretary of the Treasury in accordance with the provisions of section 3303, the taxpayer must first compute the following amounts:


(i) The amount of contributions (whether or not with respect to employment as defined in section 3306(c)) which the taxpayer would have been required to pay under the State law for such year if throughout the year he had been subject to the highest rate applied under such law in such year, or to a rate of 2.7 percent, whichever rate is lower.


(ii) The amount of contributions (whether or not with respect to employment as defined in section 3306 (c)) he was required to pay under the State law with respect to such year, whether or not paid.


(2) *Certification with respect to particular provisions of a State law.* If the Secretary of Labor makes a certification to the Secretary of the Treasury with respect to particular provisions of a State law for any taxable year pursuant to section 3303, the additional credit of the taxpayer for such year with respect to such law shall be computed in such manner as the Commissioner shall determine.


(c) *Amount of additional credit allowable to taxpayer with respect to more than one State law.* If the taxpayer is entitled to additional credit with respect to more than one State law in any taxable year, the additional credit allowable with respect to each State law shall be computed separately (in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section) and the total additional credit allowable against the tax for such year shall be the aggregate of the additional credits allowable with respect to such State laws. For limitation on total credits, see § 31.3302(c)-1.



---

[N] [T.D. 6516, 25 FR 13032, Dec. 20, 1960, as amended by T.D. 6658, 28 FR 6632, June 27, 1963]




