# § 9701.353   Setting pay upon promotion.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this section, upon an employee's promotion, DHS must provide an increase in the employee's rate of basic pay equal to at least 8 percent. The rate of basic pay after promotion may not be less than the minimum rate of the higher band.


(b) DHS will issue implementing directives providing for an increase other than the amount specified in paragraph (a) of this section in the case of—


(1) An employee promoted from an Entry/Developmental band to a Full Performance band (consistent with the pay progression plan established for the Entry/Developmental band);


(2) An employee who was demoted and is then repromoted back to the higher band; or


(3) Employees in other circumstances specified by DHS implementing directives.


(c) An employee receiving a retained rate (*i.e.,* a rate above the maximum of the band) before promotion is entitled to a rate of basic pay after promotion that is at least 8 percent higher than the maximum rate of the employee's current band (except in circumstances specified by DHS implementing directives). The rate of basic pay after promotion may not be less than the minimum rate of the employee's new band rate range or the employee's existing retained rate of basic pay. If the maximum rate of the employee's new band rate range is less than the employee's existing rate of basic pay, the employee will continue to be entitled to the existing rate as a retained rate.


(d) DHS may determine the circumstances under which and the extent to which any locality or special rate supplements are treated as basic pay in applying the promotion increase rules in this section. 




