# § 32.51   New York.

The following refuge units are open for hunting and/or fishing as governed by applicable Federal and State regulations, and are listed in alphabetical order with additional refuge-specific regulations.


(a) *Amagansett National Wildlife Refuge.* (1)-(3) [Reserved]


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: We seasonally close the refuge to sport fishing from April 1 to August 31.


(b) *Elizabeth A. Morton National Wildlife Refuge.* (1)-(3) [Reserved]


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge.




(c) *Great Thicket National Wildlife Refuge.*  (1)-(2) [Reserved]


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of wild turkey, white-tailed deer, and black bear on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) Hunters must obtain a refuge hunting permit (FWS Form 3-2439, Hunt Application—National Wildlife Refuge System). We require hunters to possess a signed refuge hunting permit at all times while scouting and hunting on the refuge.


(ii) We prohibit the use of dogs.


(iii) Hunters may access the refuge 2 hours before legal sunrise and must leave no later than 2 hours after legal sunset.


(iv) We prohibit organized deer drives. We define a “deer drive” as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten deer into moving in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the deer.


(v) We only allow archery hunting.


(4) [Reserved]










(d) *Iroquois National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck, goose, rail, coot, gallinule, woodcock, and snipe on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow the use of dogs consistent with State regulations.


(ii) For hunting of duck, goose, and coot:


(A) We allow hunting on Saturday of the New York State Youth Days.


(B) We allow hunting Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays during the regular waterfowl season, excluding opening day of deer firearms season.


(C) We require proof of successful completion of the New York State waterfowl identification course, the Iroquois nonresident waterfowl identification course, or a suitable nonresident State waterfowl identification course. All hunters must show proof of successful course completion each time they hunt.


(D) We require a refuge hunt permit (FWS Form 3-2439, Hunt Application—National Wildlife Refuge System).


(E) We allow hunting from legal starting time until 12 p.m. (noon). We require hunters to return a completed Harvest Report (FWS Form 3-2542) no later than 1 p.m. on the day of the hunt.


(F) Hunters must remain in designated hunting areas, unless actively pursuing downed or crippled birds.


(iii) For hunting of rail, gallinule, snipe, and woodcock, we allow hunting during the State seasons east of Sour Springs Road by all hunters, except we close rail, gallinule, snipe and woodcock hunting during refuge waterfowl hunt days to hunters without a refuge waterfowl permit.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of ruffed grouse, gray squirrel, cottontail rabbit, pheasant, coyote, fox, raccoon, skunk, and opossum on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The condition set forth at paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section applies.








(ii) For small game hunting:


(A) We allow hunting from opening day of the State season until the last day of February.


(B) We prohibit the use of raptors to take small game.


(iii) For furbearer hunting, we prohibit hunting from legal sunset to legal sunrise.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer and turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We require a refuge permit (FWS Form 3-2439, Hunt Application—National Wildlife Refuge System) for spring turkey hunting.


(ii) The condition set forth at paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section applies.






(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing and frogging on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow fishing and frogging from legal sunrise to legal sunset.


(ii) We prohibit collecting fish for use as bait.


(e) *Montezuma National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of waterfowl, Canada goose, snow goose, and gallinule on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow the use of dogs consistent with State regulations.


(ii) For the regular waterfowl season and October through January season for Canada goose:


(A) We require daily refuge permits (FWS Form 3-2542) and reservations; we issue permits to hunters with a reservation for that hunt day. Permits may become available on a first-come/first-served, self-serve basis during New York State's second split, subject to hunting conditions and the refuge manager's discretion. We require you to complete and return your permit by the end of the hunt day.


(B) We allow hunting only on Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays during the established refuge season set within the State western zone season, and during New York State's established special hunts, which can occur any day of the week as set by the State. Veteran and active military hunters may be accompanied by a qualified non-hunting companion (qualified companions must be of legal hunting age and possess a valid hunting license, Federal Migratory Bird Hunting and Conservation Stamp (as known as “Federal Duck Stamp”), and Harvest Information Program (HIP) number).


(C) All hunters with reservations and their hunting companions must check-in at the Route 89 Hunter Check Station area at least 1 hour before legal shooting time or forfeit their reservation. Hunters may not enter the refuge/Hunter Check Station area earlier than 2 hours before legal sunrise.


(D) We allow motorless boats to hunt waterfowl. We limit hunters to one boat per reservation and one motor vehicle in the hunt area per reservation.




(E) We prohibit shooting from within 500 feet (152 meters) of the Tschache Pool observation tower.


(F) We require proof of successful completion of the New York State waterfowl identification course, the Montezuma nonresident waterfowl identification course, or a suitable nonresident State waterfowl identification course. All hunters must show proof of successful course completion each time they hunt.


(G) You may hunt gallinule and Canada goose on refuge areas designated for the regular waterfowl season only during the regular waterfowl season.


(iii) For Canada goose in September and snow goose hunting:


(A) We allow hunting of Canada goose during the New York State September season and hunting of snow goose during portions of the New York State snow goose season and portions of the period covered by the Light Goose Conservation Order.


(B) You must possess a valid daily hunt permit (FWS Form 3-2542). We require you to complete and return the daily hunt permit card by the end of the hunt day.


(C) For snow goose hunting, hunters may enter the refuge/Hunter Check Station area no earlier than 4 hours before legal sunrise. For Canada goose hunting, hunters may enter the refuge/Hunter Check Station area no earlier than 2 hours before legal sunrise.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of rabbit and squirrel on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The condition set forth at paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section applies.








(ii) You must possess a valid daily hunt permit (FWS Form 3-2542) and are required to complete and return the daily hunt permit card by the end of each hunt day.


(iii) We allow upland game hunters to access the refuge from 2 hours before legal sunrise until 2 hours after legal sunset.


(iv) We require the use of approved non-lead shot for upland game hunting (see § 32.2(k)).










(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer and wild turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The condition set forth at paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section applies.










(ii) You must possess a valid daily hunt permit (FWS Form 3-2542). We require you to complete and return the daily hunt permit card by the end of the hunt day.


(iii) We allow white-tailed deer and turkey hunters to access the refuge from 2 hours before legal sunrise until 2 hours after legal sunset.








(iv) We allow youth and special big game hunts during New York State's established youth and special big game hunts each year.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow access for fishing from designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: We prohibit the use of lead fishing tackle.


(f) *Oyster Bay National Wildlife Refuge.* (1)-(3) [Reserved]


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: Anglers may fish from the refuge shoreline at Mill Pond from legal sunrise to legal sunset.


(g) *Seatuck National Wildlife Refuge.* (1)-(2) [Reserved]


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow archery hunting on specific days between November 1 and January 31.


(ii) Hunters must obtain and possess a refuge-specific permit (FWS Form 3-2439, Hunt Application—National Wildlife Refuge System) for hunting on the refuge.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: Anglers may fish in refuge-controlled waters of the Great South Bay from boats only.


(h) *Shawangunk Grasslands National Wildlife Refuge.* (1)-(2) [Reserved]


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of black bear, wild turkey, and white-tailed deer on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:






(i) Hunters must purchase and possess a signed refuge hunt permit (FWS Form 3-2439, Hunt Application—National Wildlife Refuge System) at all times while scouting and hunting on the refuge.


(ii) You may hunt black bear, wild turkey, and deer using archery equipment only.




(iii) We prohibit organized deer drives. We define a “deer drive” as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause deer to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the deer.


(iv) Hunters may enter the refuge 2 hours before legal shooting time and leave no later than 2 hours after legal shooting time.


(4) [Reserved]


(i) *Target Rock National Wildlife Refuge.* (1)-(3) [Reserved]


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: We allow sport fishing in Huntington Bay from the refuge shoreline when the refuge is open to visitors.


(j) *Wallkill River National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of migratory birds on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) Hunters must obtain and possess a signed refuge hunt permit (FWS Form 3-2439, Hunt Application—National Wildlife Refuge System) at all times while scouting and hunting on the refuge.


(ii) Hunters may enter the refuge 2 hours before legal shooting time and leave no later than 2 hours after legal shooting time.


(iii) We allow the use of dogs consistent with State regulations.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of rabbit/hare, gray/black/fox squirrel, pheasant, jackrabbit, chukar, woodchuck, bobwhite quail, ruffed grouse, crow, red/gray fox, coyote, bobcat, raccoon, skunk, mink, weasel, and opossum on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (j)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section apply.




(ii) We prohibit night hunting from 
1/2 hour after legal sunset until 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise the following day.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer, bear, and wild turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (j)(1)(i) and (ii), and (j)(2)(ii) of this section apply.






(ii) We prohibit organized deer drives. We define a “deer drive” as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause deer to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the deer.


(iii) We require nontoxic ammunition while hunting turkey.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) At Owens Station Crossing and Hidden Ponds fishing areas, we allow catch-and-release fishing only.


(ii) We allow fishing from 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise to 
1/2 hour after legal sunset.


(iii) We prohibit the taking of amphibians and reptiles (see § 27.21 of this chapter).


(iv) We prohibit minnow and bait trapping.


(k) *Wertheim National Wildlife Refuge.* (1)-(2) [Reserved]


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer and turkey within designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow archery and shotgun hunting of white-tailed deer during specific days between November 1 and January 31.


(ii) We require a permit (FWS Form 3-2439, Hunt Application—National Wildlife Refuge System) for hunting on the refuge.


(iii) Hunters assigned to Unit 5 must hunt from portable tree stands and must direct aim away from a public road and/or dwelling.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow shore and boat fishing on the portion of the Carmans River between Sunrise and Montauk Highways.


(ii) We allow only boat fishing from Montauk Highway south to the mouth of the Carmans River.


(iii) We prohibit spearfishing.


(iv) We prohibit the taking of baitfish and frogs.



---

[N] [84 FR 47675, Sept. 10, 2019, as amended at 85 FR 54128, Aug. 31, 2020; 86 FR 48873, Aug. 31, 2021; 87 FR 57130, Sept. 16, 2022]




