# ยง 2881.5   What acronyms and terms are used in the regulations in this part?

(a) *Acronyms.* Unless an acronym is listed in this section, the acronyms listed in part 2800 of this chapter apply to this part. As used in this part:


*MLA* means the Mineral Leasing Act of 1920, as amended (30 U.S.C. 185).


*TAPS* means the Trans-Alaska Oil Pipeline System.


*TUP* means a temporary use permit.




(b) *Terms.* Unless a term is defined in this part, the defined terms in part 2800 of this chapter apply to this part. As used in this part, the term:


*Act* means section 28 of the Mineral Leasing Act of 1920, as amended (30 U.S.C. 185).


*Actual costs* means the financial measure of resources the Federal government expends or uses in processing a right-of-way application or in monitoring the construction, operation, and termination of a facility authorized by a grant or permit. Actual costs include both direct and indirect costs, exclusive of management overhead costs.


*Casual use* means activities ordinarily resulting in no or negligible disturbance of the public lands, resources, or improvements. Examples of casual use include: Surveying, marking routes, and collecting data to prepare applications for grants or TUPs.


*Complete application* means your application contains all the required information under ยง 2884.11 and you received notification from the BLM that your application is complete.


*Cost recovery* is a fee charged to an applicant or holder to cover the costs incurred by the BLM in the processing and monitoring associated with a right-of-way grant or TUP on public lands.


*Exempt from rent* means that the BLM is precluded by statute or policy from collecting rent.


*Facility* means an improvement or structure, whether existing or planned, that is, or would be, owned and controlled by the grant or TUP holder within the right-of-way or TUP area.


*Federal lands* means all lands owned by the United States, except lands:


(i) In the National Park System;


(ii) Held in trust for an Indian or Indian tribe; or


(iii) On the Outer Continental Shelf.


*Grant* means any authorization or instrument BLM issues under section 28 of the Mineral Leasing Act, 30 U.S.C. 185, authorizing a nonpossessory, nonexclusive right to use Federal lands to construct, operate, maintain, or terminate a pipeline. The term includes those authorizations and instruments BLM and its predecessors issued for like purposes before November 16, 1973, under then existing statutory authority. It does not include authorizations issued under FLPMA (43 U.S.C. 1761 *et seq.*).


*Monitoring activities* means those activities, subject to ยง 2886.11, the Federal Government performs to ensure compliance with a right-of-way grant or TUP, such as assignments, amendments, or renewals.


(i) For Monitoring Categories 1 through 4, monitoring activities include inspecting construction, operation, maintenance, and termination of permanent or temporary facilities and protection and rehabilitation activities up to the time the holder completes rehabilitation of the right-of-way or TUP and the BLM approves it;


(ii) For Monitoring Category 5 (Master Agreements), monitoring activities include those actions or activities agreed to in the Master Agreement; and


(iii) For Monitoring Category 6, monitoring activities include those actions or activities agreed to between the BLM and the applicant.


*Oil or gas* means oil, natural gas, synthetic liquid or gaseous fuels, or any refined product produced from them.


*Pipeline* means a line crossing Federal lands for transportation of oil or gas. The term includes feeder lines, trunk lines, and related facilities, but does not include a lessee's or lease operator's production facilities located on its oil and gas lease.


*Pipeline system* means all facilities, whether or not located on Federal lands, used by a grant holder in connection with the construction, operation, maintenance, or termination of a pipeline.


*Processing activities* means those activities the Federal Government undertakes to evaluate an application for a right-of-way grant or TUP, including activities such as assignments, amendments, or renewals. It also includes preparation of an appropriate environmental document and compliance with other legal requirements in evaluating an application.


(i) For Processing Categories 1 through 4, processing activities include preliminary application reviews, application processing, and administrative actions such as assignments and amendments to the right-of-way or TUP;


(ii) For Processing Category 5 (Master Agreements), processing activities include those actions or activities agreed to in the Master Agreement; and


(iii) For Processing Category 6, processing activities include those actions or activities agreed to between the BLM and the applicant.




*Production facilities* means a lessee's or lease operator's pipes and equipment used on its oil and gas lease to aid in extracting, processing, and storing oil or gas. The term includes:


(i) Storage tanks and processing equipment;


(ii) Gathering lines upstream from such tanks and equipment, or in the case of gas, upstream from the point of delivery; and


(iii) Pipes and equipment, such as water and gas injection lines, used in the production process for purposes other than carrying oil and gas downstream from the wellhead.


*Related facilities* means those structures, devices, improvements, and sites, located on Federal lands, which may or may not be connected or contiguous to the pipeline, the substantially continuous use of which is necessary for the operation or maintenance of a pipeline, such as:


(i) Supporting structures;


(ii) Airstrips;


(iii) Roads;


(iv) Campsites;


(v) Pump stations, including associated heliports, structures, yards, and fences;


(vi) Valves and other control devices;


(vii) Surge and storage tanks;


(viii) Bridges;


(ix) Monitoring and communication devices and structures housing them;


(x) Terminals, including structures, yards, docks, fences, and storage tank facilities;


(xi) Retaining walls, berms, dikes, ditches, cuts and fills; and


(xii) Structures and areas for storing supplies and equipment.


*Right-of-way* means the Federal lands BLM authorizes a holder to use or occupy under a grant.


*Substantial deviation* means a change in the authorized location or use that requires-construction or use outside the boundaries of the right-of-way or TUP area or any change from, or modification of, the authorized use. The BLM may determine that there has been a substantial deviation in some of the following circumstances: When a right-of-way holder adds overhead or underground lines, pipelines, structures, or other facilities not expressly included in the current grant or TUP. Operation and maintenance actions or safety related improvements within an existing right-of-way are not considered a substantial deviation. Activities undertaken to reasonably prevent and suppress wildfires on or adjacent to the right-of-way do not constitute a substantial deviation.


*Temporary use permit or TUP* means a document BLM issues under 30 U.S.C. 185 that is a revocable, nonpossessory privilege to use specified Federal lands in the vicinity of and in connection with a right-of-way, to construct, operate, maintain, or terminate a pipeline or to protect the environment or public safety. A TUP does not convey any interest in land.


*Third party* means any person or entity other than BLM, the applicant, or the holder of a right-of-way authorization.







---

[N] [70 FR 21058, Apr. 22, 2005, as amended at 89 FR 25972, Apr. 12, 2024; 89 FR 41331, May 13, 2024]














