# ยง 922.700   Michigan Federal program.

(a) This part contains all rules that are applicable to surface coal mining operations in Michigan which have been adopted under the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977. 


(b) The rules in this part cross-reference pertinent parts of the permanent program regulations in this chapter. The full text of a rule is in the permanent program rule cited under the relevant section of the Michigan Federal program. 


(c) The rules in this part apply to all surface coal mining operations in Michigan conducted on non-Federal and non-Indian lands. The rules in Subchapter D of this chapter apply to operations on Federal lands in Michigan. 


(d) The information collection requirements contained in this part do not require approval by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3507 because there are fewer than ten respondents annually. 


(e) The following provisions of Michigan laws provide, where applicable, for more stringent environmental control and regulation of surface coal mining operations than do the provisions of the Act and the regulations in this chapter. Therefore, pursuant to section 505(b) of the Act, they shall not be construed to be inconsistent with the Act: 


(1) The Michigan Reclamation of Mining Lands, Act 92 (1970), MCL section 425.181 *et seq.* as amended, to the extent that it regulates surface coal mining operations which affect two acres or less; or where less than 250 tons of coal are removed or intended to be removed for commercial use or sale in one location or; or where the extraction of coal is incidental to the extraction of other minerals and where coal does not exceed 16
2/3 per centum of the tonnage of minerals removed for purposes of commercial use or sale; or coal explorations subject to section 512 of the Act (30 U.S.C. 1262) or; where the extraction of coal is an incidental part of Federal, State, or local government-financed highway or other construction. 


(2) Michigan Farmland and Open Space Preservation Act, MCL section 554.701, pertaining to land use restrictions including mineral extraction.


(3) Michigan Solid Waste Regulations pertaining to solid waste management, MCL section 299.401, R-325.3231. 


(4) Michigan noxious weed statute and regulations containing the noxious weed list, MCL section 243.61. 


(f) The following are Michigan laws that interfere with the achievement of the purposes and requirements of the Act and are, in accordance with section 504(g) of the Act, preempted and superseded: 


The Michigan Reclamation of Mining Lands Act, MCL section 425.181 *et seq.* as amended, but not to the extent that it regulates surface coal mining operations which affect two acres or less; or where less than 250 tons of coal are removed or intended to be removed for commercial use in one location; or where the extraction of coal is incidental to the extraction of other minerals and where coal does not exceed 16
2/3 per centum of the tonnage of minerals removed for purposes of commercial use or sale; or coal explorations subject to section 512 of the Act (30 U.S.C. 1262); or where the extraction of coal is an incidental part of Federal, State, or local government-financed highway or other construction. 



---

[N] [47 FR 47162, Oct. 22, 1982, as amended at 52 FR 13810, Apr. 24, 1987] 




