# ยง 12.81   When can the Service assess fees for costs incurred by the transfer, boarding, handling, or storage of property seized or forfeited?

(a) If any fish, wildlife, plant, or item of evidence is seized or forfeited under the ESA (16 U.S.C. 1531 *et seq.*), you or any person whose act or omission was the basis for the seizure will be charged a reasonable fee for expenses to the United States connected with the transfer, boarding, handling, or storage of the seized or forfeited property. If any fish, wildlife, or plant is seized in connection with a violation of the Lacey Act Amendments of 1981 (16 U.S.C. 3371 *et seq.*), you or any person convicted or assessed a civil penalty for this violation will be assessed a reasonable fee for expenses of the United States connected with the storage, care, and maintenance of the property.


(1) Within a reasonable time after seizure or forfeiture, the Service may send by registered mail, certified mail, or private courier, return receipt requested, a bill for this fee. The bill will contain an itemized statement of the applicable costs, together with instructions on the time and manner of payment.


(2) You must make payment under terms of the bill. If you fail to pay, you may be subject to collection proceedings under the Federal Claim Collection Act, 31 U.S.C. 3711 *et seq.,* as well as the Federal Debt Collection Act, 31 U.S.C. 3701 *et seq.,* and the possible refusal of clearance of future shipments, and disqualification from receiving or exercising the privileges of any Service permit.


(b) If you object to the costs described in the bill, you may, within 30 days of the date on which you received the bill, file written objections with the SAC for the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Office of Law Enforcement in the region in which the seizure occurred. Upon receipt of the written objections, the SAC will promptly review them and, within 30 days, deliver in writing a final decision. In all cases, the SAC's decision will constitute final administrative action on the matter.






