# § 56.01-5   Adoption of ASME B31.1 for power piping, and other standards.

(a) Piping systems for ships and barges must be designed, constructed, and inspected in accordance with ASME B31.1 (incorporated by reference; see § 56.01-2), as limited, modified, or replaced by specific requirements in this part. The provisions in the appendices to ASME B31.1 are adopted and must be followed when the requirements of ASME B31.1 or the rules in this part make them mandatory. For general information, table 1 to § 56.01-5(a) lists the various paragraphs and sections in ASME B31.1 that are limited, modified, replaced, or reproduced by rules in this part.


(b) When a section or paragraph of the regulations in this part relates to material in ASME B31.1, the relationship with ASME B31.1 will appear immediately after the heading of the section or at the beginning of the paragraph as follows:


(1) (Modifies __.) This indicates that the material in ASME B31.1 so numbered for identification is generally applicable but is being altered, amplified, or augmented.


(2) (Replaces __.) This indicates that the material in ASME B31.1 so numbered for identification does not apply.


(3) (Reproduces __.) This indicates that the material in ASME B31.1 so numbered for identification is being identically reproduced for convenience, not for emphasis.


(c) As stated in § 56.01-2, the standards of the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) and ASME specifically referred to in this part must be the governing requirements for the matters covered unless specifically limited, modified, or replaced by other rules in this subchapter. See § 56.60-1(b) for the other adopted commercial standards applicable to piping systems that also constitute this subchapter.



---

[N] [USCG-2003-16630, 73 FR 65175, Oct. 31, 2008]




