# § 62.107   Identification of sources.

(a) *Approval of State Plan for Commercial and Industrial Solid Waste Incineration Units.* Effective February 10, 2020, EPA approved Alabama's State Plan for Commercial and Solid Waste Incineration Units, which is codified at Alabama Rule 335-3-3-.05, amended December 8, 2017, and which is incorporated by reference. The plan applies to each existing commercial and industrial solid waste incineration unit and air curtain incineration unit in the State of Alabama that commenced construction on or before June 4, 2010, or commenced modification or construction after June 4, 2010, but no later than August 7, 2013, as such incineration units are defined in 40 CFR 60.2875 and 40 CFR part 60.


(b) *Incorporation by reference.* (1) The material incorporated by reference in this section was approved by the Director of the Federal Register Office in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of the material may be inspected or obtained from the EPA Docket Center—Public Reading Room, EPA West Building, Room 3334, 1301 Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20004 or U.S. EPA, Region 4, Air Analysis and Support Branch, 61 Forsyth Street, Atlanta, GA 30303. The telephone number for the Public Reading Room is (202) 566-1744. Copies may be inspected at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email *fedreg.legal@nara.gov* or go to: *www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.*

(2) State of Alabama, Alabama Department of Environmental Management. 1400 Coliseum Boulevard, Montgomery, AL 36110, 334-271-7700, *adem.alabama.gov.*

(i) Administrative Rule 335-3-3-3.05, Incineration of Commercial and Industrial Solid Waste (Administrative Code division 335-3, Air Division—Air Pollution Control Program), adopted October 20, 2017.


(ii) [Reserved]



---

[N] [85 FR 1120, Jan. 9, 2020]






