# § 721.11046   Hydroxy alkylbiphenyl (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as hydroxy alkylbiphenyl (PMN P-16-513) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (3), and (4), when determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1) and (4), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible, (a)(5) (respirators must provide a National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 50), (a)(6) (particulate), (a)(6)(v) and (vi), (b) (concentration set at 1.0%), and (c).


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(g) and (q).


(iii) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) where N=17.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (e), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.



---

[N] [84 FR 43296, Aug. 20, 2019]




