# § 1926.1002   Protective frames (roll-over protective structures, known as ROPS) for wheel-type agricultural and industrial tractors used in construction.

(a) *General.* This section sets forth requirements for frames used to protect operators of wheel-type agricultural and industrial tractors used in construction work that will minimize the possibility of operator injury resulting from accidental upsets during normal operation. See paragraph (e) of this section for definitions of agricultural and industrial tractors.


(b) *Equipment manufactured before* July 15, 2019. For equipment manufactured before July 15, 2019, the protective frames shall meet the test and performance requirements of the Society of Automotive Engineers Standard J334a, Protective Frame Test Procedures and Performance Requirements and J168, Protective enclosures-test procedures and performance requirements, as applicable (incorporated by reference, see § 1926.6), or comply with the consensus standard (ISO 5700:2013) listed in paragraph (c) of this section.


(c) *Equipment manufactured on or after* July 15, 2019. For equipment manufactured on or after July 15, 2019, the protective frames shall meet the test and performance requirements of the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) standard ISO 5700:2013, Tractors for agriculture and forestry—Roll-over protective structures—static test method and acceptance conditions or ISO 3471:2008 Earth-Moving Machinery—Roll-over protective structures—Laboratory tests and performance requirements (incorporated by reference, see § 1926.6).


(d) *Overhead protection requirements.* For overhead protection requirements, see § 1926.1003.


(e) *Definitions applicable to this section.* (1) “Agricultural tractor” means a wheel-type vehicle of more than 20 engine horsepower, used in construction work, that is designed to furnish the power to pull, propel, or drive implements. (SAE standard J333a-1970 (“Operator protection for wheel-type agricultural and industrial tractors”) defines “agricultural tractor” as a “wheel-type vehicle of more than 20 engine horsepower designed to furnish the power to pull, carry, propel, or drive implements that are designed for agricultural usage.” Since this part 1926 applies only to construction work, the SAE definition of “agricultural tractor” is adopted for purposes of this subpart.)


(2) “Industrial tractor” means that class of wheel-type tractors of more than 20 engine horsepower (other than rubber-tired loaders and dozers described in 29 CFR 1926.1001), used in operations such as landscaping, construction services, loading, digging, grounds keeping, and highway maintenance.



---

[N] [70 FR 76985, Dec. 29, 2005, as amended at 71 FR 41129, July 20, 2006; 84 FR 21578, May 14, 2019]




