# § 4.28   Type designations of varietal significance.

The following are type designations of varietal significance for American wine. These names may be used as type designations for American wines only if the wine is labeled with an appellation of origin as defined in § 4.25.


(a) *Muscadine.* An American wine which derives at least 75 percent of its volume from *Muscadinia rotundifolia* grapes.


(b) *Muscatel.* An American wine which derives its predominant taste, aroma, characteristics and at least 75 percent of its volume from any Muscat grape source, and which meets the requirements of § 4.21(a)(3).


(c) *Muscat or Moscato.* An American wine which derives at least 75 percent of its volume from any Muscat grape source.


(d) *Scuppernong.* An American wine which derives at least 75 percent of its volume from bronze *Muscadinia rotundifolia* grapes.


(e)(1) *Gamay Beaujolais.* An American wine which derives at least 75 percent of its volume from Pinot noir grapes, Valdiguié grapes, or a combination of both.


(2) For wines bottled on or after January 1, 1999, and prior to April 9, 2007, the name “Gamay Beaujolais” may be used as a type designation only if there appears in direct conjunction therewith, but on a separate line and separated by the required appellation of origin, the name(s) of the grape variety or varieties used to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (e)(1) of this section. Where two varietal names are listed, they shall appear on the same line, in order of predominance. The appellation of origin shall appear either on a separate line between the name “Gamay Beaujolais” and the grape variety name(s) or on the same line as the grape variety name(s) in a manner that qualifies the grape variety name(s). The following statement shall also appear on the brand or back label: “Gamay Beaujolais is made from at least 75 percent Pinot noir and/or Valdiguié grapes.”


(3) The designation “Gamay Beaujolais” may not be used on labels of American wines bottled on or after April 9, 2007.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-370, 61 FR 539, Jan. 8, 1996, as amended by T.D. ATF-388, 62 FR 16490, Apr. 7, 1997; T.D. ATF-388a, 62 FR 33747, June 23, 1997; T.D. TTB-91, 76 FR 5476, Feb. 1, 2011]




