# 19-8.2   Definitions.

For purposes of this part:


*Airport* see Origin or Destination.


*As Sold* means to report ticket information as it appears on the ticket at the time the ticket was issued or reissued just prior to first known flown lift usage. For purposes of this part, any change to an existing ticket prior to the first segment being flown that results in a change to the ticket amount should be considered as requiring the ticket to be reissued. Any changes made to the ticket after the first segment is flown or that are incidental to the ticket value should not be considered as requiring the ticket to be reissued. For example, a last-minute schedule change by the carrier to an itinerary before first known flown lift usage that does not result in a change in the amount paid and does not change the intended trip destination should not be considered as a reissued ticket in this context. Partial reissued tickets shall not be included in the collection.


*Commuter Air Carrier* means a commuter air carrier as defined in 14 CFR 298.2.


*Connecting point* means an intermediate point in a sequence of travel at which the passenger deplanes from one flight and boards another flight, either on the same carrier or from the flight of one carrier to a flight of another carrier, for continuation of the journey.


*Coupon Stage* (*See* Flight-Coupon).


*Destination* means the airport code or terminus in the ticket sequence of travel where a passenger deplanes from a flight stage. Qualifying airports or terminus will be specified periodically in accounting and reporting directives issued by the OAI. Airport, or terminus, codes are most commonly assigned by the International Air Transport Association (IATA) and occasionally by the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) or the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) depending on the jurisdiction of the airport. A common private industry source of these industry designator codes is 3rd party schedule products and OAI will use one of these products as a source where possible. Where none exists, OAI will furnish a code upon request.


*Dwell Time* means scheduled elapsed time (in minutes) between each ticketed coupon. Dwell time is not required to be reported at Via Airport stops. When dwell time exceeds 1,440 minutes, or 24 hours, report “9999”.


*Eligible Ticket* means a ticket that meets the 40% sampling criteria where the right-most digit is equal to “0” (zero), “2” (two), “7” (seven) or “9” (nine) when following the standard sampling procedure. For ad-hoc procedures, an eligible ticket is any ticket that meets the approved sampling procedure selected.


*Flight Coupon* means a defined origin and destination for a single stage of flight provided by a single Operating Carrier. Tickets are composed of one or more flight stages, also known as coupons or coupon stages.


*First Reporting Carrier Rule* means a rule applied during the Reporting Event Evaluation. The rule states that the first Reporting Carrier in the sequence of travel for a Category Two ticket is designated as the carrier responsible for reporting the ticket.


*Flown Lift Usage* is a record or indicator in the accounting system of the issuing carrier that represents a passenger ticket coupon that has been used by the passenger for travel on a flight.


*International Ticket* means a ticket that involves an international point and is submitted by a Reporting Carrier, or a ticket submitted under 49 U.S.C. 41308 and 41309 for certain foreign air carriers granted antitrust immunity that includes a Reporting Carrier (or affiliate) operated leg in an itinerary. An international point is a point that resides outside of the 50 States. U.S. possessions are considered International Points.


*Issuing Carrier* means an air carrier or foreign air carrier that issues an air travel ticket.


*Marketing Carrier* means the air carrier that markets the seat on the aircraft, regardless of whether it operates the flight segment.


*Operating Carrier* means the carrier that has operational control over the aircraft that is scheduled to depart from an airport. Under a code-share arrangement, the air carrier whose flight crew are used to perform a flight segment.


*Origin* means an airport or terminus in the ticket sequence of travel where a passenger boards a flight stage. Qualifying airports or terminus will be specified periodically in accounting and reporting directives issued by the Office of Airline Information. Airport, or terminus, codes are most commonly assigned by the International Air Transport Association (IATA) and occasionally by the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) or the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) depending on the jurisdiction of the airport. A common private industry source of these industry designator codes is 3rd party schedule products and OAI will use one of these products as a source where possible. Where none exists, OAI will furnish a code upon request.


*Purchase Window Group* means one of three groups indicating the advance purchase window of the ticket. “21AP” is less than or equal to 21 days prior to departure, “2290” is 22 to 90 days prior to departure, and “91UP” is more than 90 days prior to departure.


*Record Identification Number* (RIN) means an air carrier assigned number that uniquely identifies each ticket within each reporting period.


*Reporting Carrier* means the U.S. Certificated Air Carrier or Commuter Air Carrier that is required to report O&D data and reported a given itinerary to the Department.


*Reporting Event* means the occurrence of a Reporting Carrier recognizing that a ticket has been flown and evaluating the ticket to determine if it should be reported to the O&D.


*Reporting Carrier List* means a list maintained and published by the Office of Airline Information (OAI). Carriers report O&D data consistent with these regulations, but a carrier is not required to report until OAI adds the carrier to the Reporting Carriers List. Carriers must also determine the responsible reporting carrier for Category Two tickets using the first reporting carrier rule and should use the Reporting Carriers List to determine the responsible reporting carrier.


*Reporting Month* means the month applicable to the ticket submission.


*Reportable Ticket* means that the combination of flown lift usage, sampling process criteria, and the Category One and Category Two ticket evaluation determines if a ticket is reportable.


*Reporting Year* means the year applicable to the ticket submission.


*Revenue Passenger* has the same meaning as the definition in 14 CFR 241 Section 03—Definitions for Purposes of This System of Accounts and Reports—Passenger, Revenue.


*Routing* means the sequence of travel for each flight stage including all intermediate points of routing stopover or connection (interline or intraline) in the movement of the passenger from the first airport in the sequence of travel to the last airport in the sequence of travel for the ticket.


*Scheduled Flight Month* means month for a departure from an airport in the sequence of travel for a ticket.


*Scheduled Flight Year* means year for a departure from an airport in the sequence of travel for a ticket.


*Scheduled Service* means transport service held out and operated on a certificated air carrier or commuter carrier's routes pursuant to published flight schedules, including extra sections of scheduled flights.


*Tax Amount* means all aggregated taxes and fees imposed by the U.S., government entity, or a foreign government, such as, but not limited to, Federal excise taxes, flight segment taxes, U.S. passenger facility surcharges, September 11 security fees, U.S. or international departure and arrival charges, and immigration charges. Taxes and mandatory fees charged by other foreign authorities, such as passenger service charges and airport taxes, are also considered part of Tax Amount.


*Ticket* means a legal contract between an Issuing Carrier and a Revenue Passenger for transportation.


*Total Amount* means:


(1) Gross total of funds collected on a ticket by the Issuing Carrier for the transportation of a passenger, inclusive of taxes and fees imposed by non-carrier entities or air carriers, and exclusive of ancillary fees not required to board the plane charged by the air carrier. Factors considered in determining what should be included in the Total Amount are as follows:


(i) Total Amount includes charges required to board the aircraft (domestic and international) that are recognized as revenue at the time of purchase of the ticket and at the time of first lift of the ticket.


(ii) Where a charge assessed at the time of purchase of the ticket is associated with a choice, such as seat assignment, where the consumer must pay the fee or charge regardless of the choice made, the charge is considered part of the Total Amount.


(iii) The Total Amount does not include charges for optional services (services offered which the consumer may choose not to utilize and thus not incur the fee or charge) such as baggage fees, seat upgrade fees, or ticket change fees. When a fee is assessed and there is a no cost option, that fee is considered an ancillary fee. When a fee is assessed for a service that provides something distinct from the air travel product then that fee is considered an ancillary fee.


(iv) The term Total Amount should align with standard passenger ticket documents; however, for air carriers that do not follow such standards or have, or may have, created new fees that may not be included in the standard passenger ticket document and yet are required to be paid to board the aircraft, these must also be included in Total Amount.


(2) Based on the criteria, the following is a non-exhaustive list of carrier-imposed fees and charges that must be reported as part of the Total Amount of the ticket: fuel surcharges, carrier usage charges, carrier interface fees, check-in fees, electronic usage charges, peak/holiday travel fees, transaction processing charges, and credit card surcharge fees. When a customer is assessed a fee based on how the customer acquires a ticket to board the aircraft, a booking fee, the fee is included in the Total Amount. Being required to pay a fee or charge for electronic or phone booking where there is no fee for purchase at the counter must be reported in the Total Amount. Being charged a call center fee for booking by phone when the customer could have booked online at no charge is not an example of a booking fee that must be reported. Carriers must also include all taxes and fees imposed by the U.S. or a foreign government, such as, but not limited to, Federal excise taxes, flight segment taxes, U.S. passenger facility surcharges, September 11 security fees, U.S. or international departure and arrival charges, and immigration charges. Carriers must also include taxes and mandatory fees charged by other foreign authorities, such as passenger service charges and airport taxes.


*USD* means United States Dollars.


*Via Airport (Point(s))* means any point(s) of stopover at intermediate airports as part of a “direct” or “through” flight. These are points that are not usually recorded on a ticket as the passenger does not generally deplane from the aircraft at the intermediate point.






