# § 110.157   Delaware Bay and River.

(a) *The anchorage grounds*—(1) *Anchorage A off the entrance to the Mispillion River.* In Delaware Bay southwest of Brandywine Channel beginning at latitude 38°53′57″ N., longitude 75°08′00″ W., thence northwesterly to latitude 39°01′22″ N., longitude 75°13′25″ W., thence southwesterly to latitude 39°00′49″ N., longitude 75°14′57″ W., thence southeasterly to latitude 38°53′22″ N., longitude 75°09′26″ W., thence northeasterly to the point of beginning. Supervision over the anchoring of vessels and over all cargo transfer operations in Anchorage A is exercised by the Captain of the Port, Philadelphia. The regulations of paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section do not apply to this anchorage. 


(2) *Anchorage 1 off Bombay Hook Point.* On the southwest side of the channel along Liston Range, in the waters bounded by a line connecting the following points:


(3) *Anchorage 2 northwest of Artificial Island.* On the east side of the channel along Reedy Island Range, bounded as follows: Beginning at a point bearing 105° from the northernmost point of Reedy Island, 167 yards easterly of the east edge of the channel along Reedy Island Range; thence 105°, 800 yards; thence 195°, 4,500 yards; thence 285°, 800 yards to a point (approximately latitude 39°28′58″, longitude 75°33′37″) opposite the intersection of Reedy Island and Baker Ranges; and thence 15°, 4,500 yards, to the point of beginning.


(4) *Anchorage 3 southeast of Reedy Point.* Southeast of the entrance to the Chesapeake and Delaware Canal at Reedy Point, in the waters bounded by a line connecting the following points:


(5) *Anchorage 4 north of Reedy Point.* North of the entrance to the Chesapeake and Delaware Canal at Reedy Point, on the west side of the river, bounded as follows: Beginning at a point (approximately latitude 39°33′51″, longitude 75°33′35″) 344°58′ true, 160 yards from Chesapeake and Delaware Canal Light 2; thence 306°26′, 1,442 yards; thence 36°26′, 377 yards; thence 126°26′, 1,442 yards; thence 216°26′, 377 yards to the point of beginning. 


(6) *Anchorage 5 southeast of Pea Patch Island.* On the northeast side of the channel along New Castle Range, bounded as follows: Beginning at latitude 39°34′28″, longitude 75°33′06″; thence 334°, 2,343 yards; thence 64°, 512 yards; thence 154°, 2,343 yards; and thence 244°, 512 yards, to the point of beginning. 


(7) *Anchorage 6 off Deepwater Point.* East of the entrance to Christina River, in the waters bounded by a line connecting the following points:


(8) *Anchorage 7 off Marcus Hook.* (i) On the southeast side of the channel along Marcus Hook Range, bounded by a line connecting the following points:


(ii) A vessel that is arriving from or departing for sea and that requires an examination by public health, customs, or immigration authorities shall anchor in the preferential area of this anchorage designated for the use of vessels awaiting quarantine inspection, this area being the waters bounded by the arc of a circle with a radius of 366 yards and with the center located at:


(iii) Should the remainder of the anchorage be in use, the preferential area, when available, may be used by vessels not subject to quarantine inspection.


(9) *Anchorage 8 off Thompson Point.* On the south side of the channel along Tinicum Range, between Thompson Point and the east side of Crab Point, in the waters bounded by a line connecting the following points:


(10) *Anchorage 9 near entrance to Mantua Creek.* On the southeast side of the channel along Mifflin Range, bounded as follows: Beginning at a point on the southeast edge of the channel at longitude 75°14′26″; thence northeasterly along the edge of the channel to longitude 75°12′01.5″; thence 203°30′, 933 yards; thence 233°30′, 3,058 yards; and thence 263°30′, 933 yards, to the point of beginning. Vessels must not cast anchor in this anchorage in such manner as to interfere unreasonably with the passage of other vessels to and from Mantua Creek. 


(11)* Anchorage 10 at Naval Base, Philadelphia.* On the north side of the channel along Eagle Point Range, bounded as follows: Beginning off of the southeasterly corner of Pier 1 at 39°53′07″ N., 075°10′30″ W., thence south to the to the north edge of the channel along Eagle Point Range to 39°52′58″ N., 075°10′29″ W., thence east along the edge of the channel to 39°52′56″ N., 075°09′53″ W., thence north to 39°53′07″ N., 075°09′54″ W., thence continuing west to the beginning point at 39°53′07″ N., 075°10′30″ W. These coordinates are based on WGS 84.


(12) *Anchorage 11 at Gloucester.* (i) East of the channel south of the Walt Whitman Bridge at Gloucester, in the waters bounded by a line connecting the following points:


(ii) The area between Pier 124 S and 122 S, along the west side of the Delaware River, is restricted to facilitate vessel movements. The areas adjacent to working piers are restricted to facilitate the movement of vessels to and from these piers. Should the anchorage become so congested that vessels are compelled to anchor in these restricted areas, they must move immediately when another berth is available.


(13) *Anchorage 12 between Gloucester and Camden.* (i) East of the channel beginning north of the Walt Whitman Bridge at Gloucester and ending south of the Benjamin Franklin Bridge at Camden, bounded as follows: Beginning at a point at latitude 39°54′26.0″ N, longitude 75°07′41″ W, bounded on the west by a line perpendicular to the channel, 210 yards from the east edge of the channel, 5,536 yards north to a point at latitude 39°57′05.0″ N, longitude 75°08′04.2″ W, and then bounded by a line connecting the following points, connecting to the point of beginning:


(ii) The area between No. 2 Broadway pier and No. 1 Broadway pier is restricted to facilitate vessel movements. The areas adjacent to working piers are restricted to facilitate the movement of vessels to and from these piers. Should the anchorage become so congested that vessels are compelled to anchor in these restricted areas, they must move immediately when another berth is available.


(14) *Anchorage 13 at Camden.* East of the channel, north of the Benjamin Franklin Bridge to Cooper Point, Camden, NJ, in the waters bounded by a line connecting the following points:


(15) *Anchorage 14 opposite Port Richmond.* On the southeast side of the channel, north of Petty Island, bounded as follows: Beginning at a point on the southeast edge of the channel at longitude 75°05′43″; thence 163°, 248 yards; thence 253°, 1,978 yards, to the southeast edge of the channel; and thence northeasterly along the edge of the channel to the point of beginning. Vessels having a draft of less than 20 feet must anchor southwest of Pier No. 11, Port Richmond. The area off the Cities Service Oil Company wharves, Petty Island, shall be restricted to facilitate the movement of vessels to and from the wharves. 


(16) *Anchorage 15 off northeasterly end of Petty Island.* On the southeast side of the channel, bounded as follows: Beginning at a point on the southeast edge of the channel at longitude 75°05′34.7″; thence northeasterly along the southeast edge of the channel to longitude 75°05′09.5″; thence 171°, 198 yards; thence 260°30′, 667 yards; and thence 351°, 198 yards, to the point of beginning. When necessary, this anchorage will be reserved for vessels under the custody of the United States, at which time other vessels may be required by the Captain of the Port to shift position. 


(17) *Anchorage 16 between Port Richmond and Five Mile Point.* On the northwest side of the channel, bounded as follows: Beginning at a point on the northwest edge of the channel at longitude 75°05′35″; thence northeasterly along the edge of the channel to longitude 75°04′20″; thence 328°, 125 yards; thence 243°, 450 yards; thence 251°, 475 yards; thence 257°, 1,042 yards; thence 174°30′, 122 yards, to the point of beginning. When necessary, this anchorage will be reserved for vessels under the custody of the United States, at which time other vessels may be required by the Captain of the Port to shift position. 


(18) [Reserved]


(19) *Anchorage C—Cape Henlopen.* All waters bound by the following points:


(20) *Anchorage D—Indian River.* All waters bound by the following points:


(b) *General regulations.* (1) Except in cases of great emergency, no vessel shall be anchored in Delaware Bay and River between Ship John Light and The Pennsylvania Railroad Company bridge at Delair, New Jersey, outside of the anchorage areas established in this section, or within a cable or pipe line area shown on a Government chart, or be moored, anchored, or tied up to any pier, wharf, or other vessel in such manner as to obstruct or endanger the passage of any vessel. When an emergent condition exists due to congestion in the prescribed anchorage areas in the Delaware River, the Captain of the Port may authorize the anchorage of vessels in locations other than the prescribed areas. Vessels so anchored must not be anchored within the channel limits. Any vessel anchored outside of the prescribed anchorage limits must move to a prescribed anchorage area when space becomes available. 


(2) No vessel shall occupy any prescribed anchorage for a longer period than 48 hours without a permit from the Captain of the Port. Vessels expecting to be at anchor for more than 48 hours shall obtain a permit from the Captain of the Port for that purpose. No vessel in such condition that it is likely to sink or otherwise become a menace or obstruction to navigation or anchorage of other vessels shall occupy an anchorage except in an emergency, and then only for such period as may be permitted by the Captain of the Port.


(3) Whenever, in the opinion of the Captain of the Port such action may be necessary, he may require any or all vessels in any designated anchorage area to moor with two or more anchors. 


(4) [Reserved] 


(5) Anchors shall be placed well within the anchorage areas, so that no portion of the hull or rigging will at any time extend outside of the anchorage area. 


(6) Light-draft barges using the anchorages shall be anchored away from the deeper portions of the anchorages, so as not to interfere with the anchoring of deep-draft vessels. Any barges towed in tandem to an anchorage area shall be bunched together when anchoring. 


(7) Upon approval of the District Engineer, Corps of Engineers, the Captain of the Port may permit wrecking plant or other vessels legally engaged in recovering sunken property, or in laying or repairing pipe lines or cables, or plant engaged in dredging operations, to anchor in channels. Such permission is not necessary for plant engaged upon works of river and harbor improvement under the supervision of the District Engineer, but the District Engineer will notify the Captain of the Port in advance of all such proposed work. 


(8) [Reserved] 


(9) A vessel upon being notified to shift its position shall get under way at once or signal for a tug and shall change position as directed with reasonable promptness. 


(10) Nothing in this section shall be construed as relieving any vessel or the owner or person in charge of any vessel from the penalties of law for obstructing navigation or for obstructing or interfering with range lights, or for not complying with the laws relating to lights and fog signals or other navigation laws and regulations.


(11) Annually from September 1 until December 31, additional requirements and restrictions in this paragraph for the use of anchorages defined in paragraphs (a)(7), (a)(8), and (a)(10) of this section apply.


(i) Before anchoring in Anchorage 7 off Marcus Hook, as described in paragraph (a)(8) of this section, a vessel must first obtain permission from the Captain of the Port, Philadelphia, at least 24 hours in advance of arrival. Permission to anchor will be granted on a “first-come, first-served” basis. The Captain of the Port, Philadelphia, will allow only one vessel at a time to be at anchor in Anchorage 7, and no vessel may remain within Anchorage 7 for more than 12 hours. Any vessel arriving from or departing to sea that requires an examination by the public health service, customs or immigration authorities will be directed to an anchorage for the required inspection by the Captain of the Port on a case-by-case basis.


(ii) For Anchorage 6 off Deepwater Point, as described in paragraph (a)(7) of this section, and Anchorage 9 as described in paragraph (a)(10) of this section.


(A) Any vessel 700 feet or greater in length requesting anchorage shall obtain permission from the Captain of the Port, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, at least 24 hours in advance.


(B) Any vessel from 700 to 750 feet in length shall have one tug alongside at all times while the vessel is at anchor.


(C) Any vessel greater than 750 feet in length shall have two tugs alongside at all times while the vessel is at anchor.


(D) The Master, owner or operator of a vessel at anchor shall ensure that any tug required by this section is of sufficient horsepower to assist with necessary maneuvers to keep the vessel clear of the navigation channel.


(iii) As used in this section, Captain of the Port means the Commander of Sector Delaware Bay or any Coast Guard commissioned, warrant or petty officer who has been authorized by the Captain of the Port to act on his behalf. The Captain of the Port may be contacted by telephone at (215) 271-4807 or via VHF marine band radio, channel 16.


(c) *Regulations for vessels carrying and handling explosives.* (1) All vessels carrying explosives as defined in and subject to Title 49 Code of Federal Regulations, Parts 171 through 177, or on which such explosives are to be loaded, shall obtain a permit from the Captain of the Port, except as provided in paragraph (c)(5) of this section. The maximum amount of explosives for which a permit is required in 49 CFR Parts 171 through 177, which may be carried or loaded at any time by a vessel shall not exceed 800 tons, except in cases of great emergency or by special permit from the Captain of the Port. This written permit shall be obtained from the Captain of the Port before vessels carrying explosives or on which explosives are to be loaded within the weight limit specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, may anchor in any anchorge. Permits will not be issued for Anchorage 2 under any circumstances. Such permit may be revoked at any time. All vessels used in connection with loading, or unloading explosives shall carry written permits from the Captain of the Port, and shall show such permit whenever required by him or his representative.


(2) Vessels handling explosives shall be anchored so as to be at least 2,200 feet from any other vessel, but the number of vessels which may anchor in an anchorage at any one time shall be at the discretion of the Captain of the Port. This provision is not intended to prohibit barges or lighters from tying up alongside the vessels for the transfer of cargo.


(3) Whenever a vessel or barge not mechanically self-propelled anchors while carrying explosives or while awaiting the loading of explosives, the Captain of the Port may require the attendance of a tug upon such vessel or barge when in his judgment such action is necessary.


(4) Fishing and navigation are prohibited within an anchorage whenever occupied by an anchored vessel displaying a red flag.


(5) The District Engineer, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, may authorize, in writing, a vessel carrying explosives for use on river and harbor works or on other work under Department of the Army permit, to anchor in or near the vicinity of such work. The Captain of the Port will prescribe the conditions under which explosives shall be stored and handled in such cases.


(6) Vessels carrying explosives or on which explosives are to be loaded, within the weight limit specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, shall comply with the general regulations in paragraph (b) of this section when applicable.


(7) Nothing in this section shall be construed as relieving any vessel or the owner or person-in-charge of any vessel, and all others concerned, of the duties and responsibilities imposed upon them to comply with the regulations governing the handling, loading or discharging of explosives entitled “Subchapter C—Hazardous Materials Regulations” (49 CFR Parts 171 through 177).



---

[N] [CGFR 67-46, 32 FR 17728, Dec. 12, 1967]


