# § 550.304   Existing facilities.

(a) *Process leading to review of an existing facility.* (1) An affected State may request that the Regional Supervisor supply basic emission data from existing facilities when such data are needed for the updating of the State's emission inventory. In submitting the request, the State must demonstrate that similar offshore and onshore facilities in areas under the State's jurisdiction are also included in the emission inventory.


(2) The Regional Supervisor may require lessees of existing facilities to submit basic emission data to a State submitting a request under paragraph (a)(1) of this section.


(3) The State submitting a request under paragraph (a)(1) of this section may submit information from its emission inventory which indicates that emissions from existing facilities may be significantly affecting the air quality of the onshore area of the State. The lessee shall be given the opportunity to present information to the Regional Supervisor which demonstrates that the facility is not significantly affecting the air quality of the State.


(4) The Regional Supervisor shall evaluate the information submitted under paragraph (a)(3) of this section and shall determine, based on the basic emission data, available meteorological data, and the distance of the facility or facilities from the onshore area, whether any existing facility has the potential to significantly affect the air quality of the onshore area of the State.


(5) If the Regional Supervisor determines that no existing facility has the potential to significantly affect the air quality of the onshore area of the State submitting information under paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the Regional Supervisor shall notify the State of and explain the reasons for this finding.


(6) If the Regional Supervisor determines that an existing facility has the potential to significantly affect the air quality of an onshore area of the State submitting information under paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the Regional Supervisor shall require the lessee to refer to the information requirements under § 550.218 or § 550.249 of this part and submit only that information required to make the necessary findings under paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section. The lessee shall submit this information within 120 days of the Regional Supervisor's determination or within a longer period of time at the discretion of the Regional Supervisor. The lessee shall comply with the requirements of this section as necessary.


(b) *Exemption formulas.* To determine whether an existing facility is exempt from further air quality review, the lessee must use the highest annual-total amount of emissions from the facility calculated for each criteria air pollutant, VOC, and TSP listed in § 550.249(a) or § 550.218(a) and compare these emissions to the emission exemption threshold (EET) calculated using the following formulas: EET = 3400*D_2/3_ for carbon monoxide (CO); and EET = 33.3*D for total suspended particulates (TSP), sulfur dioxide (SO_2_), nitrogen oxides (NO_X_), utilizing NO_2_ as the indicator pollutant for NO_X_ and VOC (where EET is the emission exemption threshold expressed in short tons per year, and D is the distance of the proposed facility from the closest onshore area of a State expressed in statute miles). If the amount of these projected emissions is less than or equal to the emission exemption threshold (EET) for the corresponding criteria air pollutant, VOC, and TSP, the facility is exempt from further air quality review required under paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section.


(c) *Significance levels.* For a facility not exempt under paragraph (b) of this section, the lessee must use a BOEM approved air quality model to determine whether the projected emissions from the facility result in an onshore ambient air concentration above any SL set forth in § 550.303(e). In the event that the emissions of TSP exceed the EET for TSP, the lessee must use a BOEM approved air quality model to determine whether the projected emissions from the facility result in an onshore ambient air concentration above the SL for either PM_10_ or PM_2.5._

(d) *Significance determinations.* (1) The projected emissions of any criteria air pollutant from any facility that result in an onshore ambient air concentration above an SL determined under paragraph (c) of this section for that criteria air pollutant, will be deemed to significantly affect the air quality of the onshore area for that criteria air pollutant.


(2) The projected emissions of VOC from any facility, which is not exempt under paragraph (b) of this section, will be deemed to significantly affect the air quality of the onshore area for VOC.


(e) *Controls required.* (1) The projected emissions of any criteria air pollutant or VOC that significantly affect the air quality of an onshore area must be reduced through the application of BACT.


(2) The lessee shall submit a compliance schedule for the application of BACT. If it is necessary to cease operations to allow for the installation of emission controls, the lessee may apply for a suspension of operations under the provisions of 30 CFR 250.174.


(f) *Review of facilities with emissions below the emission exemption thresholds.* If, during the review of the information required under paragraph (a)(6) of this section, the Regional Supervisor determines or an affected State submits information to the Regional Supervisor which demonstrates, in the judgment of the Regional Supervisor, that projected emissions from an otherwise exempt facility will, either individually or in combination with other facilities in the area, significantly affect the air quality of an onshore area, then the Regional Supervisor shall require the lessee to submit additional information to determine whether control measures are necessary. The lessee shall be given the opportunity to present information to the Regional Supervisor which demonstrates that the exempt facility is not significantly affecting the air quality of an onshore area of the State.


(g) *Emission monitoring requirements.* The lessee shall monitor, in a manner approved or prescribed by the Regional Supervisor, emissions from the facility following the installation of emission controls. The lessee shall submit this information monthly in a manner and form approved or prescribed by the Regional Supervisor.


(h) *Collection of meteorological data.* The Regional Supervisor may require the lessee to collect, for a period of time and in a manner approved or prescribed by the Regional Supervisor, and submit meteorological data from a facility.



---

[N] [76 FR 64623, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 34937, June 5, 2020]




