# § 716.2   Purposes and types of inspections of declared facilities.

(a) *Schedule 1 facilities*—(1) *Purposes of inspections.* The aim of inspections of Schedule 1 facilities is to verify that:


(i) The facility is not used to produce any Schedule 1 chemical, except for the declared Schedule 1 chemicals;


(ii) The quantities of Schedule 1 chemicals produced, processed or consumed are correctly declared and consistent with needs for the declared purpose; and


(iii) The Schedule 1 chemical is not diverted or used for purposes other than those declared.


(2) *Types of inspections*—(i) *Initial inspections.* (A) During initial inspections of declared Schedule 1 facilities, in addition to the verification activities listed in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the Host Team and the Inspection Team will draft site-specific facility agreements (see § 716.6 of the CWCR) for the conduct of routine inspections.


(B) For new Schedule 1 production facilities declared pursuant to § 712.4 of the CWCR, the U.S. National Authority, in coordination with BIS, will conclude a facility agreement with the OPCW before the facility begins producing above 100 grams aggregate of Schedule 1 chemicals.


(ii) *Routine inspections.* During routine inspections of declared Schedule 1 facilities, the verification activities listed in paragraph (a)(1) of this section will be carried out pursuant to site-specific facility agreements (see § 716.6 of the CWCR) developed during the initial inspections and concluded between the U.S. Government and the OPCW pursuant to the Convention.


(b) *Schedule 2 plant sites*—(1) *Purposes of inspections.* (i) The general aim of inspections of declared Schedule 2 plant sites is to verify that activities are in accordance with obligations under the Convention and consistent with the information provided in declarations. Particular aims of inspections of declared Schedule 2 plant sites are to verify:


(A) The absence of any Schedule 1 chemical, especially its production, except in accordance with the provisions of the Convention;


(B) Consistency with declarations of production, processing or consumption of Schedule 2 chemicals; and


(C) Non-diversion of Schedule 2 chemicals for activities prohibited under the Convention.


(ii) During initial inspections, Inspection Teams shall collect information to determine the frequency and intensity of subsequent inspections by assessing the risk to the object and purpose of the Convention posed by the relevant chemicals, the characteristics of the plant site and the nature of the activities carried out there. The Inspection Team will take the following criteria into account, inter alia:


(A) The toxicity of the scheduled chemicals and of the end-products produced with them, if any;


(B) The quantity of the scheduled chemicals typically stored at the inspected site;


(C) The quantity of feedstock chemicals for the scheduled chemicals typically stored at the inspected site;


(D) The production capacity of the Schedule 2 plants; and


(E) The capability and convertibility for initiating production, storage and filling of toxic chemicals at the inspected site.


(2) *Types of inspections*—(i) *Initial inspections.* During initial inspections of declared Schedule 2 plant sites, in addition to the verification activities listed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the Host Team and the Inspection Team will generally draft site-specific facility agreements for the conduct of routine inspections (see § 716.6 of the CWCR).


(ii) *Routine inspections.* During routine inspections of declared Schedule 2 plant sites, the verification activities listed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section will be carried out pursuant to any appropriate site-specific facility agreements developed during the initial inspections (see § 716.6 of the CWCR), and concluded between the U.S. Government and the OPCW pursuant to the Convention and the Act.


(c) *Schedule 3 plant sites*—(1) *Purposes of inspections.* The general aim of inspections of declared Schedule 3 plant sites is to verify that activities are consistent with the information provided in declarations. The particular aim of inspections is to verify the absence of any Schedule 1 chemical, especially its production, except in accordance with the Convention.


(2) *Routine inspections.* During routine inspections of declared Schedule 3 plant sites, in addition to the verification activities listed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the Host Team and the Inspection Team may draft site-specific facility agreements for the conduct of subsequent routine inspections (see § 716.6 of the CWCR). Although the Convention does not require facility agreements for declared Schedule 3 plant sites, the owner, operator, occupant or agent in charge of a plant site may request one. The Host Team will not seek a facility agreement if the owner, operator, occupant or agent in charge of the plant site does not request one. Subsequent routine inspections will be carried out pursuant to site-specific facility agreements, if applicable.


(d) *Unscheduled discrete organic chemical plant sites*—(1) *Purposes of inspections.* The general aim of inspections of declared UDOC plant sites is to verify that activities are consistent with the information provided in declarations. The particular aim of inspections is to verify the absence of any Schedule 1 chemical, especially its production, except in accordance with the Convention.


(2) *Routine inspections.* During routine inspections of declared UDOC plant sites, in addition to the verification activities listed in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the Host Team and the Inspection Team may develop draft site-specific facility agreements for the conduct of subsequent routine inspections (see § 716.6 of the CWCR). Although the Convention does not require facility agreements for declared UDOC plant sites, the owner, operator, occupant or agent in charge of a plant site may request one. The Host Team will not seek a facility agreement if the owner, operator, occupant or agent in charge of the plant site does not request one. Subsequent routine inspections will be carried out pursuant to site-specific facility agreements, if applicable. 




