# ยง 1639.1   Purpose; definitions.

(a) The provisions of this part shall govern the consideration of a claim by a registrant for classification in Class 2-D (ยง 1630.26 of this chapter).


(b) The definitions of this paragraph shall apply to the interpretation of the provisions of this part:


(1) The term *ministry* refers to the vocation of a *duly ordained minister of religion* or *regular minister of religion* as defined in part 1645 of this chapter.


(2) The term *recognized church or religious organization* refers to a church or religious organization established on the basis of a community of faith and belief, doctrines and practices of a religious character, and which engages primarily in religious activities.


(3) The term *recognized theological or divinity school* refers to a theological or divinity school whose graduates are acceptable for ministerial duties either as an ordained or regular minister by the church or religious organization sponsoring a registrant as a ministerial student.


(4) The term *graduate program* refers to a program in which the registrant's studies are officially approved by his church or religious organization for entry into service as a regular or duly ordained minister of religion.


(5) The term *full-time intern* applies to a program that must run simultaneous with or immediately follow the completion of the theological or divinity training and is required by a recognized church or religious organization for entry into the ministry.


(6) The term *satisfactorily pursuing a full-time course of instruction* means maintaining a satisfactory academic record as determined by the institution while receiving full-time instructions in a structured learning situation. A full-time course of instruction does not include instructions received pursuant to a mail order program.




