# § 75.602   Planning the construction.

(a) In planning the construction project, a grantee—


(1) Must ensure that the design is functional, economical, and not elaborate in design or extravagant in the use of materials compared with facilities of a similar type constructed in the State or other applicable geographic area;


(2) May consider excellence of architecture and design and inclusion of works of art. A grantee must not spend more than 1 percent of the cost of the project on works of art; and


(3) May make reasonable provision, consistent with the other uses to be made of the construction, for areas that are adaptable for artistic and other cultural activities.


(b) In developing the proposed budget for the construction project, a grantee—


(1) Must ensure that sufficient funds are available to meet any non-Federal share of the cost of the construction project;


(2) May include sufficient funds for commissioning of energy, HVAC, and water systems and to train personnel in the proper operation of such building systems;


(3) For new construction and major rehabilitation projects, may consider life-cycle cost analysis for major design decisions to the extent possible;


(4) May budget for reasonable and predictable contingency costs consistent with 2 CFR 200.433; and


(5) May budget for school and community education about the construction project including its energy, environmental, and health features and benefits.


(c) Prior to approving a construction project under § 75.601, the Secretary considers a grantee's compliance with the following requirements, as applicable:


(1) Title to site (§ 75.610).


(2) Environmental impact assessment (§ 75.611).


(3) Avoidance of flood hazards (§ 75.612).


(4) Compliance with the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (§ 75.613).


(5) Preservation of historic sites (§ 75.614).


(6) Build America, Buy America Act (§ 75.615).


(7) Energy conservation (§ 75.616).


(8) Access for individuals with disabilities (§ 75.617).


(9) Safety and health standards (§ 75.618).



---

[N] [89 FR 70331, Aug. 29, 2024]










