# ยง 701.13   Form and content of Office responses.

(a) *Form of notice granting a request.* After the Office has made a determination to grant a request in whole or in part, the Office shall so notify the requester in writing. The notice shall describe the manner in which the record will be disclosed, whether by providing a copy of the record to the requester or by making a copy of the record available to the requester for inspection at a reasonable time and place. The procedure for such an inspection shall not unreasonably disrupt the operations of the Office. The Office shall inform the requester in the notice of any fees to be charged in accordance with the provisions of ยง 701.18 of this part. 


(b) *Form of notice denying a request.* The Office, when denying a request in whole or in part, shall so notify the requester in writing. The notice must be signed by the FOIA/PA Officer, or her designee, and shall include: 


(1) The name and title or position of the person responsible for the denial; 


(2) A brief statement of the reason or reasons for the denial, including the FOIA exemption or exemptions that the Office has relied upon in denying the request and a brief explanation of the manner in which the exemption or exemptions apply to each record withheld; and 


(3) A statement that the denial may be appealed under ยง 701.16(a) and a description of the requirements of that subsection. 


(c) *Record cannot be located or has been destroyed.* If a requested record cannot be located from the information supplied, or is known or believed to have been destroyed or otherwise disposed of, the Office shall so notify the requester in writing. 




