# § 862.1355   Integrated continuous glucose monitoring system.

(a) *Identification.* An integrated continuous glucose monitoring system (iCGM) is intended to automatically measure glucose in bodily fluids continuously or frequently for a specified period of time. iCGM systems are designed to reliably and securely transmit glucose measurement data to digitally connected devices, including automated insulin dosing systems, and are intended to be used alone or in conjunction with these digitally connected medical devices for the purpose of managing a disease or condition related to glycemic control.


(b) *Classification.* Class II (special controls). The special controls for this device are:


(1) Design verification and validation must include the following:


(i) Robust clinical data demonstrating the accuracy of the device in the intended use population.


(ii) The clinical data must include a comparison between iCGM values and blood glucose values in specimens collected in parallel that are measured on an FDA-accepted laboratory-based glucose measurement method that is precise and accurate, and that is traceable to a higher order (*e.g.,* an internationally recognized reference material and/or method).


(iii) The clinical data must be obtained from a clinical study designed to fully represent the performance of the device throughout the intended use population and throughout the measuring range of the device.


(iv) Clinical study results must demonstrate consistent analytical and clinical performance throughout the sensor wear period.


(v) Clinical study results in the adult population must meet the following performance requirements:


(A) For all iCGM measurements less than 70 milligrams/deciliter (mg/dL), the percentage of iCGM measurements within ±15 mg/dL of the corresponding blood glucose value must be calculated, and the lower one-sided 95 percent confidence bound must exceed 85 percent.


(B) For all iCGM measurements from 70 mg/dL to 180 mg/dL, the percentage of iCGM measurements within ±15 percent of the corresponding blood glucose value must be calculated, and the lower one-sided 95 percent confidence bound must exceed 70 percent.


(C) For all iCGM measurements greater than 180 mg/dL, the percentage of iCGM measurements within ±15 percent of the corresponding blood glucose value must be calculated, and the lower one-sided 95 percent confidence bound must exceed 80 percent.


(D) For all iCGM measurements less than 70 mg/dL, the percentage of iCGM measurements within ±40 mg/dL of the corresponding blood glucose value must be calculated, and the lower one-sided 95 percent confidence bound must exceed 98 percent.


(E) For all iCGM measurements from 70 mg/dL to 180 mg/dL, the percentage of iCGM measurements within ±40 percent of the corresponding blood glucose value must be calculated, and the lower one-sided 95 percent confidence bound must exceed 99 percent.


(F) For all iCGM measurements greater than180 mg/dL, the percentage of iCGM measurements within ±40 percent of the corresponding blood glucose value must be calculated, and the lower one-sided 95 percent confidence bound must exceed 99 percent.


(G) Throughout the device measuring range, the percentage of iCGM measurements within ±20 percent of the corresponding blood glucose value must be calculated, and the lower one-sided 95 percent confidence bound must exceed 87 percent.


(H) When iCGM values are less than 70 mg/dL, no corresponding blood glucose value shall read above 180 mg/dL.


(I) When iCGM values are greater than 180 mg/dL, no corresponding blood glucose value shall read less than 70 mg/dL.


(J) There shall be no more than 1 percent of iCGM measurements that indicate a positive glucose rate of change greater than 1 mg/dL per minute (/min) when the corresponding true negative glucose rate of change is less than −2 mg/dL/min as determined by the corresponding blood glucose measurements.


(K) There shall be no more than 1 percent of iCGM measurements that indicate a negative glucose rate of change less than −1 mg/dL/min when the corresponding true positive glucose rate of change is greater than 2 mg/dL/min as determined by the corresponding blood glucose measurements.


(vi) Data demonstrating similar accuracy and rate of change performance of the iCGM in the pediatric population as compared to that in the adult population, or alternatively a clinical and/or technical justification for why pediatric data are not needed, must be provided and determined by FDA to be acceptable and appropriate.


(vii) Data must demonstrate that throughout the claimed sensor life, the device does not allow clinically significant gaps in sensor data availability that would prevent any digitally connected devices from achieving their intended use.


(2) Design verification and validation must include a detailed strategy to ensure secure and reliable means of iCGM data transmission to provide real-time glucose readings at clinically meaningful time intervals to devices intended to receive the iCGM glucose data.


(3) Design verification and validation must include adequate controls established during manufacturing and at product release to ensure the released product meets the performance specifications as defined in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section.


(4) The device must demonstrate clinically acceptable performance in the presence of clinically relevant levels of potential interfering substances that are reasonably present in the intended use population, including but not limited to endogenous substances and metabolites, foods, dietary supplements, and medications.


(5) The device must include appropriate measures to ensure that disposable sensors cannot be used beyond its claimed sensor wear period.


(6) Design verification and validation must include results obtained through a usability study that demonstrates that the intended user can use the device safely and obtain the expected glucose measurement accuracy.


(7) The labeling required under § 809.10(b) of this chapter must include a separate description of the following sensor performance data observed in the clinical study performed in conformance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section for each intended use population, in addition to separate sensor performance data for each different iCGM insertion or use sites (*e.g.,* abdomen, arm, buttock):


(i) A description of the accuracy in the following blood glucose concentration ranges: less than 54 mg/dL, 54 mg/dL to less than 70 mg/dL, 70 to 180 mg/dL, greater than 180 to 250 mg/dL, and greater than 250 mg/dL.


(ii) A description of the accuracy of positive and negative rate of change data.


(iii) A description of the frequency and duration of gaps in sensor data.


(iv) A description of the true, false, missed, and correct alert rates and a description of the available glucose concentration alert settings, if applicable.


(v) A description of the observed duration of iCGM life for the device.



---

[N] [87 FR 9238, Feb. 18, 2022]




