# § 516.125   Investigational use of minor species new animal drugs to support indexing.

(a) The investigational use of a new animal drug or animal feed bearing or containing a new animal drug intended solely for investigational use in minor species shall meet the requirements of part 511 of this chapter if the investigational use is for the purpose of:


(1) Demonstrating human food safety under section 572(a)(1)(B) of the act;


(2) Demonstrating safety with respect to individuals exposed to the new animal drug through its manufacture and use under section 572(c)(1)(F) of the act;


(3) Conducting an environmental assessment under section 572(c)(1)(E) of the act; or


(4) Obtaining approval of a new animal drug application or abbreviated new animal drug application under section 512(b) of the act.


(b) Correspondence and information associated with investigations described in paragraph (a) of this section shall not be sent to the Director, OMUMS, but shall be submitted to FDA in accordance with the provisions of part 511 of this chapter.


(c) The investigational use of a new animal drug or animal feed bearing or containing a new animal drug intended solely for investigational use in minor species, other than for an investigational use described in paragraph (a) of this section, shall meet the requirements of this section. For such investigations, all provisions of part 511 of this chapter apply with the following modifications:


(1) Under § 511.1(a)(1) of this chapter, the label statement is as follows:


“*Caution.* Contains a new animal drug for investigational use only in laboratory animals or for tests in vitro in support of index listing. Not for use in humans.”


(2) Under § 511.1(b)(1) of this chapter, the label statement is as follows:


“*Caution.* Contains a new animal drug for use only in investigational animals in clinical trials in support of index listing. Not for use in humans. Edible products of investigational animals are not to be used for food for humans or other animals unless authorization has been granted by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration or by the U.S. Department of Agriculture.”


(3) Under § 511.1(b)(4) of this chapter, the notice is titled “Notice of Claimed Investigational Exemption for a New Animal Drug for Index Listing” and is submitted in duplicate to the Director, OMUMS.


(4) Under § 511.1(c)(3) of this chapter, if an investigator is determined to be ineligible to receive new animal drugs, each “Notice of Claimed Investigational Exemption for a New Animal Drug for Index Listing” and each request for indexing shall be examined with respect to the reliability of information submitted by the investigator.


(5) Under § 511.1(c)(4) and (d)(2) of this chapter, with respect to termination of exemptions, the sponsor of an investigation shall not be granted an opportunity for a regulatory hearing before FDA pursuant to part 16 of this chapter. Instead, the sponsor shall have an opportunity for an informal conference as described in § 516.123.


(6) Under § 511.1(c)(5) of this chapter, if the Commissioner of Food and Drugs determines, after the unreliable data submitted by the investigator are eliminated from consideration, that the data remaining are such that a request for addition to the index would have been denied, FDA will remove the new animal drug from the index in accordance with § 516.167.


(d) The investigational use of a new animal drug or animal feed bearing or containing a new animal drug subject to paragraph (c) of this section shall not be subject to the good laboratory practice requirements in part 58 of this chapter.


(e) Correspondence and information associated with investigations described in paragraph (c) of this section shall be sent to the Director, OMUMS, in accordance with the provisions of this section.




