# § 63.1568   What are my requirements for HAP emissions from sulfur recovery units?

(a) *What emission limitations and work practice standard must I meet?* You must: 


(1) Meet each emission limitation in Table 29 of this subpart that applies to you. If your sulfur recovery unit is subject to the NSPS for sulfur oxides in § 60.104 or § 60.102a(f)(1) of this chapter, you must meet the emission limitations for NSPS units. If your sulfur recovery unit is not subject to one of these NSPS for sulfur oxides, you can choose from the options in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (ii) of this section:


(i) You can elect to meet the NSPS requirements in § 60.104(a)(2) or § 60.102a(f)(1) of this chapter (Option 1); or


(ii) You can elect to meet the total reduced sulfur (TRS) emission limitation (Option 2). 


(2) Meet each operating limit in Table 30 of this subpart that applies to you. 


(3) Prepare an operation, maintenance, and monitoring plan according to the requirements in § 63.1574(f) and operate at all times according to the procedures in the plan. 


(4) On or before the date specified in § 63.1563(d), you must comply with one of the three options in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section during periods of startup and shutdown.


(i) You can elect to comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.


(ii) You can elect to send any startup or shutdown purge gases to a flare. On and after January 30, 2019, the flare must meet the requirements of § 63.670. Prior to January 30, 2019, the flare must meet the design and operating requirements in § 63.11(b) or the requirements of § 63.670.


(iii) You can elect to send any startup or shutdown purge gases to a thermal oxidizer or incinerator operated at a minimum hourly average temperature of 1,200 degrees Fahrenheit in the firebox and a minimum hourly average outlet oxygen (O_2_) concentration of 2 volume percent (dry basis).


(b) *How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations and work practice standards?* You must: 


(1) Install, operate, and maintain a continuous monitoring system according to the requirements in § 63.1572 and Table 31 of this subpart. 


(2) Conduct each performance test for a sulfur recovery unit not subject to the NSPS for sulfur oxides according to the requirements in § 63.1571 and under the conditions specified in Table 32 of this subpart. 


(3) Establish each site-specific operating limit in Table 30 of this subpart that applies to you according to the procedures in Table 32 of this subpart. 


(4) Correct the reduced sulfur samples to zero percent excess air using Equation 1 of this section as follows: 


(5) Demonstrate initial compliance with each emission limitation that applies to you according to Table 33 of this subpart. 


(6) Demonstrate initial compliance with the work practice standard in paragraph (a)(3) of this section by submitting the operation, maintenance, and monitoring plan to your permitting authority as part of your notification of compliance status. 


(7) Submit the notification of compliance status containing the results of the initial compliance demonstration according to the requirements in § 63.1574. 


(c) *How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations and work practice standards?* You must: 


(1) Demonstrate continuous compliance with each emission limitation in Tables 29 and 30 of this subpart that applies to you according to the methods specified in Tables 34 and 35 of this subpart. 


(2) Demonstrate continuous compliance with the work practice standard in paragraph (a)(3) of this section by complying with the procedures in your operation, maintenance, and monitoring plan. 



---

[N] [67 FR 17773, Apr. 11, 2002, as amended at 80 FR 75275, Dec. 1, 2015; 81 FR 45244, July 13, 2016]




