# ยง 606.3   Definitions.

As used in this part: 


(a) *Blood* means a product that is a fluid containing dissolved and suspended elements which was collected from the vascular system of a human.


(b) *Unit* means the volume of blood or one of its components in a suitable volume of anticoagulant obtained from a single collection of blood from one donor. 


(c) *Blood component* means a product containing a part of human blood separated by physical or mechanical means.


(d) *Plasma for further manufacturing* means that liquid portion of blood separated and used as material to prepare another product. 


(e) *Plasmapheresis* means the procedure in which blood is removed from the donor, the plasma is separated from the formed elements and at least the red blood cells are returned to the donor.


(f) *Plateletpheresis* means the procedure in which blood is removed from a donor, a platelet concentrate is separated, and the remaining formed elements are returned to the donor along with a portion of the residual plasma.


(g) *Leukapheresis* means the procedure in which blood is removed from the donor, a leukocyte concentrate is separated, and the remaining formed elements and residual plasma are returned to the donor. 


(h) *Facilities* means any area used for the collection, processing, compatibility testing, storage or distribution of blood and blood components. 


(i) *Processing* means any procedure employed after collection, and before or after compatibility testing of blood, and includes the identification of a unit of donor blood, the preparation of components from such unit of donor blood, serological testing, labeling and associated recordkeeping.


(j) *Compatibility testing* means the procedures performed to establish the matching of a donor's blood or blood components with that of a potential recipient.


(k) *Distributed* means: 


(1) The blood or blood components have left the control of the licensed manufacturer, unlicensed registered blood establishment, or transfusion service; or 


(2) The licensed manufacturer has provided Source Plasma or any other blood component for use in the manufacture of a licensed biological product. 


(l) *Control* means having responsibility for maintaining the continued safety, purity, and potency of the product and for compliance with applicable product and establishment standards, and for compliance with current good manufacturing practices.



---

[N] [40 FR 53532, Nov. 18, 1975, as amended at 64 FR 45370, Aug. 19, 1999; 65 FR 66635, Nov. 7, 2000; 66 FR 1835, Jan. 10, 2001; 66 FR 40889, Aug. 6, 2001; 72 FR 45886, Aug. 16, 2007; 80 FR 29894, May 22, 2015]




