# § 221.3   Office of Inspector General.

(a) *Establishment.* The Office of Inspector General (OIG) was established as an independent law enforcement and oversight agency for the United States Postal Service under the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App. 3), as amended in 1988 (Pub. L. 100-504, 102 Stat. 2515) and 1996 (Pub. L. 104-208, 110 Stat. 3009).


(b) *Responsibilities.* The OIG was established to:


(1) Provide an independent and objective unit to conduct and supervise audits and investigations relating to programs and operations of the Postal Service.


(2) Provide leadership and coordination and recommend policies for activities designed to:


(i) Promote economy, efficiency, and effectiveness in the administration of postal programs and operations.


(ii) Prevent and detect fraud and abuse in postal programs and operations.


(3) Provide a means of keeping the governors and Congress fully and currently informed about:


(i) Problems and deficiencies relating to the administration of postal programs and operations.


(ii) The necessity for corrective action.


(iii) The progress of corrective action.


(4) Provide oversight of all activities of the Postal Inspection Service.


(c) *Inspector General*—(1) *Appointment.* The inspector general is appointed for a 7-year term by the nine governors.


(2) *Responsibilities.* The inspector general is responsible for the operations of the OIG: ensuring independent and objective audits and investigations of postal operations and programs; overseeing the Postal Inspection Service; and apprising the governors and Congress of significant observations. The inspector general has no direct responsibility for designing, installing, and/or operating postal operations or programs.


(3) *Extent of powers.* In addition to the authority otherwise provided by the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amended, the inspector general is authorized to:


(i) Have unrestricted access to all Postal Service operations, programs, records, and documents, whether in custody of the Postal Service or available by law, contract, or regulation.


(ii) Have direct and prompt access to the governors when necessary for any purpose pertaining to the performance of the functions and responsibilities of the OIG.


(iii) Administer oaths when necessary in performance of the functions assigned to the OIG.


(iv) Require by subpoena the production of all information, documents, reports, answers, records, accounts, papers, and other data and documentary evidence necessary in the performance of the functions of the OIG.


(v) Select, appoint, and employ such officers and employees as may be necessary for carrying out the functions, powers, and duties of the OIG.


(vi) Obtain the temporary or intermittent services of experts or consultants in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.




