# § 1025.38   Subpoenas.

(a) *Availability.* A subpoena shall be addressed to any person not a party for the purpose of compelling attendance, testimony, and production of documents at a hearing or deposition, and may be addressed to any party for the same purposes.


(b) *Form.* A subpoena shall identify the action with which it is connected; shall specify the person to whom it is addressed and the date, time, and place for compliance with its provisions; and shall be issued by order of the Commission and signed by the Secretary or by the Presiding Officer. A subpoena *duces tecum* shall specify the books, papers, documents, or other materials or data-compilations to be produced.


(c) *How obtained*—(1) *Content of application.* An application for the issuance of a subpoena, stating reasons, shall be submitted in triplicate to the Presiding Officer. The Presiding Officer shall bring the application to the attention of the Commission by forwarding it or by communicating its contents by any other means, e.g., by telephone, to the Commission.


(2) *Procedure for application.* The original and two copies of the subpoena, marked “original,” “duplicate” and “triplicate,” shall accompany the application. The Commission shall rule upon an application for a subpoena *ex parte,* by issuing the subpoena or by issuing an order denying the application.


(d) *Issuance of a subpoena.* The Commission shall issue a subpoena by authorizing the Secretary or the Presiding Officer to sign and date each copy in the lower right-hand corner. The “duplicate” and “triplicate” copies of the subpoena shall be transmitted to the applicant for service in accordance with these Rules; the “original” shall be retained by, or be forwarded to, the Secretary for retention in the docket of the proceedings.


(e) *Service of a subpoena.* A subpoena may be served in person or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, as provided in § 1025.16(b) of these rules. Service shall be made by delivery of the signed “duplicate” copy to the person named therein.


(f) *Return of service.* A person serving a subpoena shall promptly execute a return of service, stating the date, time, and manner of service. If service is effected by mail, the signed return receipt shall accompany the return of service. In case of failure to make service, a statement of the reasons for the failure shall be made. The “triplicate” copy of the subpoena, bearing or accompanied by the return of service, shall be returned without delay to the Secretary after service has been completed.


(g) *Motion to quash or limit subpoena.* Within five (5) days of receipt of a subpoena, the person to whom it is directed may file a motion to quash or limit the subpoena, setting forth the reasons why the subpoena should be withdrawn or why it should be limited in scope. Any such motion shall be answered within five (5) days of service and shall be ruled on immediately. The order shall specify the date, if any, for compliance with the specifications of the subpoena.


(h) *Consequences of failure to comply.* In the event of failure by a person to comply with a subpoena, the Presiding Officer may take any of the actions enumerated in § 1025.37 of these rules, or may order any other appropriate relief to compensate for the withheld testimony, documents, or other materials. If in the opinion of the Presiding Officer such relief is insufficient, the Presiding Officer shall certify to the Commission a request for judicial enforcement of the subpoena.




