# ยง 3286.805   Procedures for identification as qualified installation program.

(a) *Submission of certification.* (1) A state seeking identification as having a qualified installation program must submit a completed State Installation Program Certification form to the Secretary for review and acceptance and indicate if the installation program will be part of its approved state plan in accordance with part 3282 of this chapter.


(2) A state must include a qualified installation program as part of any state plan application submitted for approval under ยง 3282.302 of this chapter, if the state does not have a fully or conditionally approved state plan in effect at the time of submission of the state plan application. In all other cases, a qualified installation program is permitted, but is not required, to be submitted as a part of a state plan approved in accordance with ยง 3282.305 of this chapter.


(b) *HUD review and action.* (1) The Secretary will review the State Installation Program Certification form submitted by a state and may request that the state submit additional information as necessary. Unless the Secretary has contacted the state for additional information or has conditionally accepted or rejected the state installation program, the state installation program will be considered to have been accepted by the Secretary as a fully qualifying installation program as of the earlier of:


(i) Ninety days after the Secretary receives the state's completed State Installation Program Certification form; or


(ii) The date that the Secretary issues notification to the state of its full acceptance.


(2) A notice of full or conditional acceptance will include the effective date of acceptance.


(c) *Rejection of state installation program.* (1) If the Secretary intends to reject a state's installation program, the Secretary will provide to the state an explanation of what is necessary to obtain full or conditional acceptance. The state will be given 90 days from the date the Secretary provides such explanation to submit a revised State Installation Program Certification form.


(2) If the Secretary decides that any revised State Installation Program Certification form is inadequate, or if the state fails to submit a revised form within the 90-day period or otherwise indicates that it does not intend to change its form, the Secretary will notify the state that its installation program is not accepted.


(3) A state whose State Installation Program Certification form is rejected has a right to a presentation of views on the rejection using the procedures set forth under subpart D of part 3282 of this chapter. The state's request for a presentation of views must be submitted to the Secretary within 60 days after the Secretary has provided notification that the state's installation program has been rejected.




