# § 165.523   Safety Zone; Waterway Training Area, Sector Delaware Bay Captain of the Port Zone.

(a) *Location.* All navigable waters, on a portion of the Delaware River, encompassed by a line connecting the following points beginning at latitude 39°51′05.4″ N, longitude 075°20′17.4″ W; thence east to latitude 39°51′42.0″ N, longitude 075°18′39.6″ W; thence south to latitude 39°50′38.4″ N, longitude 075°18′09.0″ W; thence west to latitude 39°50′05.4″ N, 075°19′37.2″ W; and thence north back to the beginning point. (WGS 84)


(b) *Definitions.* As used in this section, designated representative means a Coast Guard Patrol Commander, including a Coast Guard petty officer, warrant or commissioned officer onboard a Coast Guard vessel or onboard a federal, state, or local law enforcement vessel assisting the Captain of the Port (COTP), Sector Delaware Bay in the enforcement of the safety zone.


(c) *Regulations.* (1) Under the general safety zone regulations in subpart C of this part, you may not enter or remain in the safety zone described in paragraph (a) of this section unless authorized by the COTP or the COTP's designated representative.


(2) To seek permission to enter or remain in the zone, contact the COTP or the COTP's representative via VHF-FM channel 16 or (215) 271-4807. Those in the safety zone must comply with all lawful orders or directions given to them by the COTP or the COTP's designated representative.


(3) No vessel authorized to enter or remain in the zone may take on bunkers or conduct lightering operations within the safety zone during its enforcement period.


(4) This section applies to all vessels except those engaged in law enforcement, aids to navigation servicing, and emergency response operations.


(d) *Enforcement.* (1) The safety zone created by this section will be enforced only upon issuance of a Broadcast Notice to Mariners (BNM) by the COTP or the COTP's representative, as well as on-scene notice or other appropriate means in accordance with § 165.7.


(2) The U.S. Coast Guard may be assisted in the patrol and enforcement of the safety zone by Federal, State, and local agencies.



---

[N] [USCG-2024-0680, 89 FR 88649, Nov. 8, 2024]




