# ยง 904.243   Admissions.

(a) *Request.* If ordered by the Judge, any party may serve on any other party a written request for admission of the truth of any relevant matter of fact set forth in the request in conformance with ยง 904.3, including the genuineness of any relevant document described in the request. Copies of documents must be served with the request. Each matter for which an admission is requested must be separately stated.


(b) *Response.* Each matter is admitted unless a written answer or objection is served within 20 days of service of the request in conformance with ยง 904.3, or within such other time as the Judge may allow. The answering party must specifically admit or deny each matter, or state the reasons why he or she cannot truthfully admit or deny it. A denial must fairly respond to the substance of the matter; and when good faith requires that a party qualify an answer or deny only a part of a matter, the answer must specify the part admitted and qualify or deny the rest. The answering party may assert lack of knowledge or information as a reason for failing to admit or deny only if the party states that it has made reasonable inquiry and that the information it knows or can readily obtain is insufficient to enable it to admit or deny.


(c) *Effect of admission.* Any matter admitted is conclusively established unless the Judge on motion permits withdrawal or amendment of it for good cause shown. 



---

[N] [71 FR 12448, Mar. 10, 2006, as amended at 87 FR 38939, June 30, 2022]




