# ยง 2550.50   What are the composition requirements and other requirements, restrictions or guidelines for State Commissions?

The following provisions apply to both State Commissions and AAEs, except that AAEs may obtain waivers from certain provisions as explained in ยง 2550.60.


(a) *Size of the State Commission and terms of State Commission members.* The chief executive officer of a State must appoint 15-25 voting members to the State Commission (in addition to any non-voting members he or she may appoint). Voting members of a State Commission must be appointed to renewable three-year terms, except that initially a chief executive officer must appoint a third of the members to one-year terms and another third of the members to two-year terms.


(b) *Required voting members on a State Commission.* A member may represent none, one, or more than one category, but each of the following categories must be represented:


(1) A representative of a community-based agency or organization in the State;


(2) The head of the State education agency or his or her designee;


(3) A representative of local government in the State;


(4) A representative of local labor organizations in the State;


(5) A representative of business;


(6) An individual between the ages of 16 and 25, inclusive, who is a participant or supervisor of a service program for school-age youth, or of a campus-based or national service program;


(7) A representative of a national service program;


(8) An individual with expertise in the educational, training, and development needs of youth, particularly disadvantaged youth;


(9) An individual with experience in promoting the involvement of older adults (age 55 and older) in service and volunteerism; and


(10) A representative of the volunteer sector.


(c) *Appointment of other voting members of a State Commission.* Any remaining voting members of a State Commission are appointed at the discretion of the chief executive officer of the State; however, although this list should not be construed as exhaustive, the Corporation suggests the following types of individuals:


(1) Educators, including representatives from institutions of higher education and local education agencies;


(2) Experts in the delivery of human, educational, environmental, or public safety services to communities and persons;


(3) Representatives of Indian tribes;


(4) Out-of-school or at-risk youth; and


(5) Representatives of programs that are administered or receive assistance under the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973, as amended (DVSA) (42 U.S.C. 4950 *et seq.*).


(d) *Appointment of ex officio, non-voting members of a State Commission.* The chief executive officer of a State may appoint as ex officio, non-voting members of the State Commission officers or employees of State agencies operating community service, youth service, education, social service, senior service, or job training programs.


(e) *Other composition requirements.* To the extent practicable, the chief executive officer of a State shall ensure that the membership for the State commission is diverse with respect to race, ethnicity, age, gender, and disability characteristics. Not more than 50 percent plus one of the voting members of a State commission may be from the same political party. In addition, the number of voting members of a State commission who are officers or employees of the State may not exceed 25% of the total membership of that State commission.


(f) *Selection of Chairperson.* The chairperson is elected by the voting members of a State Commission. To be eligible to serve as chairperson, an individual must be an appointed, voting member of a State Commission.


(g) *Vacancies.* If a vacancy occurs on a State Commission, a new member must be appointed by the chief executive officer of the State to serve for the remainder of the term for which the predecessor of such member was appointed. The vacancy will not affect the power of the remaining members to execute the duties of the Commission.


(h) *Compensation of State Commission members.* A member of a State Commission may not receive compensation for his or her services, but may be reimbursed (at the discretion of the State) for travel and daily expenses in the same manner as employees intermittently serving the State.


(i) *The role of the Corporation representative.* The Corporation will designate one of its employees to serve as a representative to each State or group of States. This individual must be included as an ex officio non-voting member on the State Commission. In general, the Corporation representative will be responsible for assisting States in carrying out national service activities.



---

[N] [58 FR 60981, Nov. 18, 1993, as amended at 73 FR 53762, Sept. 17, 2008; 74 FR 46507, Sept. 10, 2009; 74 FR 48866, Sept. 25, 2009]




