# ยง 180.573   Tepraloxydim; tolerances for residues.

(a) *General.* (1) Tolerances are established for residues of tepraloxydim, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities in the table below. Compliance with the tolerance levels specified below is to be determined by measuring only the combined residues of tepraloxydim, (2-[1-[[[(2*E*)-3-chloro-2-propen-1-yl]oxy]imino]propyl]-3-hydroxy-5-(tetrahydro-2*H*-pyran-4-yl)-2-cyclohexen-1-one) and its metabolites convertible to GP (3-(tetrahydropyran-4-yl)pentane-1,5-dioic acid) and OH-GP (3-hydroxy-3-(tetrahydropyran-4-yl)pentane-1,5-dioic acid), calculated as tepraloxydim, in or on the commodities.


(2) Tolerances are established for residues of tepraloxydim, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities in the table below. Compliance with the tolerance levels specified below is to be determined by measuring only the combined residues of tepraloxydim (2-[1-[[[(2*E*)-3-chloro-2-propen-1-yl]oxy]imino]propyl]-3-hydroxy-5-(tetrahydro-2*H*-pyran-4-yl)-2-cyclohexen-1-one) and its metabolites convertible to GP (3-(tetrahydropyran-4-yl)pentane-1,5-dioic acid), OH-GP (3-hydroxy-3-(tetrahydropyran-4-yl)pentane-1,5-dioic acid), and GL (3-(2-oxotetrahydropyran-4-yl)-1,5-dioic acid), calculated as tepraloxydim, in or on the commodities.


(b) *Section 18 emergency exemptions.* [Reserved] 


(c) *Tolerances with regional registrations.* A tolerance with regional registration, as defined in ยง 180.1(l), is established for residues of tepraloxydim, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities in the table below. Compliance with the tolerance levels specified below is to be determined by measuring only the combined residues of tepraloxydim (2-[1-[[[(2*E*)-3-chloro-2-propen-1-yl]oxy]imino]propyl]-3-hydroxy-5-(tetrahydro-2*H*-pyran-4-yl)-2-cyclohexen-1-one) and its metabolites convertible to GP (3-(tetrahydropyran-4-yl)pentane-1,5-dioic acid) and OH-GP (3-hydroxy-3-(tetrahydropyran-4-yl)pentane-1,5-dioic acid), calculated as tepraloxydim, in or on the commodities.


(d) *Indirect or inadvertent residues.* [Reserved]



---

[N] [66 FR 40150, Aug. 2, 2001, as amended at 72 FR 54588, Sept. 26, 2007; 76 FR 34885, June 15, 2011; 76 FR 82152, Dec. 30, 2011; 81 FR 34906, June 1, 2016]




