# § 220.177   Terms and definitions.

There are several terms and definitions which are important to know in order to understand how the Board reviews whether a disability for any regular employment continues:


(a) *Medical improvement.* Medical improvement is any decrease in the medical severity of an impairment(s) which was present at the time of the most recent favorable medical decision that the annuitant was disabled or continued to be disabled. A determination that there has been a decrease in medical severity must be based on a comparison of prior and current medical evidence showing changes (improvement) in the symptoms, signs or laboratory findings associated with the impairment(s).


(b) *Medical improvement not related to ability to do work.* Medical improvement is not related to the annuitant's ability to work if there has been a decrease in the severity of the impairment(s) (as defined in paragraph (a) of this section) present at the time of the most recent favorable medical decision, but no increase in that annuitant's functional capacity to do basic work activities as defined in paragraph (d) of this section. If there has been any medical improvement in an annuitant's impairment(s), but it is not related to the annuitant's ability to do work and none of the exceptions applies, the annuity will be continued.


(c) *Medical improvement that is related to ability to do work.* Medical improvement is related to an annuitant's ability to work if there has been a decrease in the severity (as defined in paragraph (a) of this section) of the impairment(s) present at the time of the most recent favorable medical decision and an increase in the annuitant's functional capacity to do basic work activities as discussed in paragraph (d) of this section. A determination that medical improvement related to an annuitant's ability to do work has occurred does not, necessarily, mean that such annuitant's disability will be found to have ended unless it is also shown that the annuitant is currently able to engage in substantial gainful activity as discussed in paragraph (e) of this section.


(d) *Functional capacity to do basic work activities.* (1) Under the law, disability is defined, in part, as the inability to do any regular employment by reason of a physical or mental impairment(s). “Regular employment” is defined in this part as “substantial gainful activity.” In determining whether the annuitant is disabled under the law, the Board will measure, therefore, how and to what extent the annuitant's impairment(s) has affected his or her ability to do work. The Board does this by looking at how the annuitant's functional capacity for doing basic work activities has been affected. Basic work activities means the abilities and aptitudes necessary to do most jobs. Included are exertional abilities such as walking, standing, pushing, pulling, reaching and carrying, and non-exertional abilities and aptitudes such as seeing, hearing, speaking, remembering, using judgment, dealing with changes in a work setting and dealing with both supervisors and fellow workers. The annuitant who has no impairment(s) would be able to do all basic work activities at normal levels; he or she would have an unlimited functional capacity to do basic work activities. Depending on its nature and severity, an impairment(s) will result in some limitation to the functional capacity to do one or more of these basic work activities. Diabetes, for example, can result in circulatory problems which could limit the length of time the annuitant could stand or walk and can result in damage to his or her eyes as well, so that the annuitant also had limited vision. What the annuitant can still do, despite his or her impairment(s), is called his or her residual functional capacity. How the residual functional capacity is assessed is discussed in more detail in § 220.120. Unless an impairment is so severe that it is deemed to prevent the annuitant from doing substantial gainful activity (*i.e.,* the impairment(s) is medically disabling), it is this residual functional capacity that is used to determine whether the annuitant can still do his or her past work or, in conjunction with his or her age, education and work experience, do any other work.


(2) A decrease in the severity of an impairment as measured by changes (improvement) in symptoms, signs or laboratory findings can, if great enough, result in an increase in the functional capacity to do work activities. Vascular surgery (e.g., femoropopliteal bypass) may sometimes reduce the severity of the circulatory complications of diabetes so that better circulation results and the annuitant can stand or walk for longer periods. When new evidence showing a change in medical findings establishes that both medical improvement has occurred and the annuitant's functional capacity to perform basic work activities, or residual functional capacity, has increased, the Board will find that medical improvement which is related to the annuitant's ability to do work has occurred. A residual functional capacity assessment is also used to determine whether an annuitant can engage in substantial gainful activity and, thus, whether he or she continues to be disabled (see paragraph (e) of this section).


(3) Many impairment-related factors must be considered in assessing an annuitant's functional capacity for basic work activities. Age is one key factor. Medical literature shows that there is a gradual decrease in organ function with age; that major losses and deficits become irreversible over time and that maximum exercise performance diminishes with age. Other changes related to sustained periods of inactivity and the aging process include muscle atrophy, degenerative joint changes, decrease in range of motion, and changes in the cardiac and respiratory systems which limit the exertional range.


(4) Studies have also shown that the longer the annuitant is away from the workplace and is inactive, the more difficult it becomes to return to ongoing gainful employment. In addition, a gradual change occurs in most jobs so that after about 15 years, it is no longer realistic to expect that skills and abilities acquired in these jobs will continue to apply to the current workplace. Thus, if the annuitant is age 50 or over and had been receiving a disability annuity for a considerable period of time, the Board will consider this factor along with his or her age in assessing the residual functional capacity. This will ensure that the disadvantages resulting from inactivity and the aging process during a longer period of disability will be considered. In some instances where available evidence does not resolve what the annuitant can or cannot do on a sustained basis, the Board may provide special work evaluations or other appropriate testing.


(e) *Ability to engage in substantial gainful activity.* In most instances, the Board must show that the annuitant is able to engage in substantial gainful activity before stopping his or her annuity. When doing this, the Board will consider all of the annuitant's current impairments not just that impairment(s) present at the time of the most recent favorable determination. If the Board cannot determine that the annuitant is still disabled based on medical considerations alone (as discussed in §§ 220.110 through 220.115), it will use the new symptoms, signs and laboratory findings to make an objective assessment of functional capacity to do basic work activities (or residual functional capacity) and will consider vocational factors. See §§ 220.120 through 220.134.


(f) *Evidence and basis for the Board's decision.* The Board's decisions under this section will be made on a neutral basis without any initial inference as to the presence or absence of disability being drawn from the fact that the annuitant had previously been determined to be disabled. The Board will consider all of the evidence the annuitant submits. An annuitant must give the Board reports from his or her physician, psychologist, or others who have treated or evaluated him or her, as well as any other evidence that will help the board determine if he or she is still disabled (see § 220.45). The annuitant must have a good reason for not giving the Board this information or the Board may find that his or her disability has ended (see § 220.178(b)(2)). If the Board asks the annuitant, he or she must contact his or her medical sources to help the Board get the medical reports. The Board will make every reasonable effort to help the annuitant in getting medical reports when he or she gives the Board permission to request them from his or her physician, psychologist, or other medical sources, Every reasonable effort means that the Board will make an initial request and, after 20 days, one follow-up request to the annuitant's medical source to obtain the medical evidence necessary to make a determination before the Board evaluates medical evidence obtained from another source on a consultative basis. The medical source will have 10 days from the follow-up to reply (unless experience indicates that a longer period is advisable in a particular case). In some instances the Board may order a consultative examination while awaiting receipt of medical source evidence. Before deciding that an annuitant's disability has ended, the Board will develop a complete medical history covering at least the preceding 12 months (See § 220.45(b)). A consultative examination may be purchased when the Board needs additional evidence to determine whether or not an annuitant's disability continues. As a result, the Board may ask the annuitant, upon the Board request and reasonable notice, to undergo consultative examinations and tests to help the Board determine whether the annuitant is still disabled (see § 220.50). The Board will decide whether or not to purchase a consultative examination in accordance with the standards in §§ 220.53 through 220.54.


(g) *Point of comparison.* For purposes of determining whether medical improvement has occurred, the Board will compare the current medical severity of that impairment(s), which was present at the time of the most recent favorable medical decision that the annuitant was disabled or continued to be disabled, to the medical severity of that impairment(s) at that time. If medical improvement has occurred, the Board will compare the annuitant's current functional capacity to do basic work activities (i.e., his or her residual functional capacity) based on this previously existing impairment(s) with the annuitant's prior residual functional capacity in order to determine whether the medical improvement is related to his or her ability to do work. The most recent favorable medical decision is the latest decision involving a consideration of the medical evidence and the issue of whether the annuitant was disabled or continued to be disabled which became final.



---

[N] [56 FR 12980, Mar. 28, 1991, as amended at 74 FR 63601, Dec. 4, 2009]




