# ยง 19.208   Net worth exhibit.

(a) *Required information.* Each applicant, except a qualified tax-exempt organization or cooperative association, must provide with its application a detailed exhibit showing the net worth of the applicant and, where appropriate, any of its affiliates at the time the adversary adjudication was initiated. Except as otherwise provided in this section, this exhibit may be in any form convenient to the applicant that provides full disclosure of the applicant's and its affiliates' assets and liabilities and is sufficient to determine whether the applicant qualifies under the standards in this subpart. A presiding officer may require an applicant to file additional information to determine its eligibility for an award.


(1) An unaudited financial statement is acceptable for individual applicants as long as the statement provides a reliable basis for evaluation, unless the presiding officer or the OCC otherwise requires. Financial statements or reports filed with or reported to a Federal or State agency before the initiation of the adversary adjudication for other purposes and accurate as of a date not more than three months prior to the initiation of the proceeding are acceptable in establishing net worth as of the time of the initiation of the proceeding, unless the presiding officer or the OCC otherwise requires.


(2) In the case of applicants or affiliates that are not banks or savings associations, net worth will be considered for the purposes of this subpart to be the excess of total assets over total liabilities as of the date the underlying proceeding was initiated.


(3) If the applicant or any of its affiliates is a bank or a savings association, the portion of the statement of net worth that relates to the bank or the savings association must consist of a copy of the bank's or savings association's last Consolidated Report of Condition and Income filed before the initiation of the adversary adjudication. Net worth will be considered for the purposes of this subpart to be the total equity capital as reported, in conformity with applicable instructions and guidelines, on the bank's or the savings association's Consolidated Report of Condition and Income filed for the last reporting date before the initiation of the proceeding.


(b) *Confidentiality of net worth submissions.* Ordinarily, the net worth exhibit will be included in the public record of the proceeding. However, an applicant that objects to public disclosure of information in any portion of the exhibit and believes there are legal grounds for withholding it from disclosure may request that the documents be filed under seal or otherwise be treated as confidential.






