# § 21.126   Farm cooperative course.

(a) *Definition.* An approvable farm cooperative course is a full-time course designated to restore employability by training a veteran to:


(1) Operate a farm which he or she owns or leases; or


(2) Manage a farm as the employee of another. 


(b) *Reaching the goal of a farm cooperative course.* The farm cooperative course must enable a veteran to become proficient in the type of farming for which he or she is being provided rehabilitation services. The areas in which proficiency is to be established include:


(1) Planning;


(2) Producing;


(3) Marketing;


(4) Maintaining farm equipment;


(5) Conserving farm resources;


(6) Financing the farm;


(7) Managing the farm; and


(8) Keeping farm and home accounts. 


(c) *Instruction, including organized group instruction.* Instruction in a farm cooperative course may be by a mixture of organized group (classroom) instruction and individual instruction or by individual instruction alone. A course which includes organized group instruction must meet the following criteria to be considered as full-time:


(1) The number of clock hours of instruction which should be provided yearly shall meet the requirements of § 21.310(a)(4) and § 21.4264 pertaining to full-time pursuit of a farm cooperative course:


(2) The individual instructor portion of a farm cooperative course shall include at least 100 hours of individual instruction per year. 


(d) *Instruction given solely by an individual instructor.* (1) Instruction in a farm cooperative course may be given solely by an individual instructor if organized group instruction is:


(i) Not available within reasonable commuting distance of the veteran's farm; or


(ii) The major portion of the organized group instruction that is available does not have a direct relation to the veteran's farming operation and pertinent VA records are fully and clearly documented accordingly.


(2) To be considered full-time pursuit the individual instruction provided in these course must:


(i) Consist of at least 200 hours of instruction per year;


(ii) Be given by a fully qualified individual instructor by contract between VA and the instructor or an educational agency which employs the instructor. 


(e) *Plan requirements for farm operator or farm manager.* (1) The plan for training developed by the case manager and the veteran in collaboration with the instructor must include:


(i) A complete written survey including but not limited to the areas identified in § 21.298 (a) and (b);


(ii) An overall, long-term plan based upon the survey of the operation of the farm;


(iii) An annual plan identifying the part of the overall plan to be implemented which will be prepared before the beginning of each crop year; and


(iv) A detailed individual training program showing the kind and amount of instruction, classroom and individual, or individual; and


(2) The farm must meet the requirements for selecting a farm found in § 21.298.



---

[N] [49 FR 40814, Oct. 18, 1984; 50 FR 9622, Mar. 11, 1985]




