# ยง 1212.16   Applications for exercise of discretion relating to T nonimmigrant status.

(a) *Filing the waiver application.* An alien applying for the exercise of discretion under section 212(d)(13) or (d)(3)(B) of the Act (waivers of inadmissibility) in connection with an application for T nonimmigrant status shall submit Form I-192, with the appropriate fee in accordance with ยง 103.7(b)(1) of this chapter or an application for a fee waiver, to the Service with the completed Form I-914 application package for status under section 101(a)(15)(T)(i) of the Act. 


(b) *Treatment of waiver application.* (1) The Service shall determine whether a ground of inadmissibility exists with respect to the alien applying for T nonimmigrant status. If a ground of inadmissibility is found, the Service shall determine if it is in the national interest to exercise discretion to waive the ground of inadmissibility, except for grounds of inadmissibility based upon sections 212(a)(3), 212(a)(10)(C) and 212(a)(10)(E) of the Act, which the Commissioner may not waive. Special consideration will be given to the granting of a waiver of a ground of inadmissibility where the activities rendering the alien inadmissible were caused by or incident to the victimization described under section 101(a)(15)(T)(i) of the Act. 


(2) In the case of applicants inadmissible on criminal and related grounds under section 212(a)(2) of the Act, the Service will only exercise its discretion in exceptional cases unless the criminal activities rendering the alien inadmissible were caused by or were incident to the victimization described under section 101(a)(15)(T)(i) of the Act. 


(3) An application for waiver of a ground of inadmissibility for T nonimmigrant status (other than under section 212(a)(6) of the Act) will be granted only in exceptional cases when the ground of inadmissibility would prevent or limit the ability of the applicant to adjust to permanent resident status after the conclusion of 3 years. 


(4) The Service shall have sole discretion to grant or deny a waiver, and there shall be no appeal of a decision to deny a waiver. However, nothing in this paragraph (b) is intended to prevent an applicant from re-filing a request for a waiver of a ground of inadmissibility in appropriate cases. 


(c) *Incident to victimization.* When an applicant for status under section 101(a)(15)(T) of the Act seeks a waiver of a ground of inadmissibility under section 212(d)(13) of the Act on grounds other than those described in sections 212(a)(1) and (a)(4) of the Act, the applicant must establish that the activities rendering him or her inadmissible were caused by, or were incident to, the victimization described in section 101(a)(15)(T)(i)(I) of the Act. 


(d) *Revocation.* The Commissioner may at any time revoke a waiver previously authorized under section 212(d) of the Act. Under no circumstances shall the alien or any party acting on his or her behalf have a right to appeal from a decision to revoke a waiver.



---

[N] [67 FR 4795, Jan. 31, 2002]




