# § 60.5415b   How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the standards for each of my affected facilities?

(a) *Well completion standards for well affected facility.* For each well completion operation at your well affected facility, you must demonstrate continuous compliance with the requirements of § 60.5375b by submitting the annual report required by § 60.5420b(b)(1) and (2) and maintaining the records for each completion operation specified in § 60.5420b(c)(1).


(b) *Gas well liquids unloading standards for well affected facility.* For each well liquids unloading operation at your well affected facility, you must demonstrate continuous compliance with the requirements of § 60.5376b by submitting the annual report information specified in § 60.5420b(b)(1) and (3) and maintaining the records for each well liquids unloading event specified in § 60.5420b(c)(2). For each gas well liquids unloading well affected facility that complies with the requirements of § 60.5376b(g), you must route emissions to a control device through a closed vent system and continuously comply with the closed vent requirements of § 60.5416b. You also must comply with the requirements specified in paragraph (f) of this section and maintain the records in § 60.5420b(c)(8), (10) and (12).


(c) *Associated gas well standards for well affected facility.* For each associated gas well, you must demonstrate continuous compliance with the requirements of § 60.5377b by submitting the reports required by § 60.5420b(b)(1) and (4) and maintaining the records specified in § 60.5420b(c)(3). For each associated gas well that complies with the requirements of § 60.5377b(d) or (f), you must route emissions to a control device through a closed vent system and continuously comply with the closed vent requirements of § 60.5416b. You also must comply with the requirements specified in paragraph (f) of this section and maintain the records in § 60.5420b(c)(8), (10) and (12).


(d) *Centrifugal compressor affected facility.* For each wet seal centrifugal compressor affected facility complying with § 60.5380b(a)(1) and (2), or with § 60.5380b(a)(3) by routing emissions to a control device or to a process, you must demonstrate continuous compliance according to paragraph (d)(1) and paragraphs (d)(3) and (4) of this section. For each self-contained wet seal centrifugal compressor complying with the requirements in § 60.5380b(a)(4), you must demonstrate continuous compliance according to paragraphs (d)(2) through (4) of this section. For each centrifugal compressor on the Alaska North Slope equipped with sour seal oil separator and capture system, complying with the requirements of § 60.5380b(a)(5), you must demonstrate continuous compliance according to paragraphs (d)(2) through (4) of this section. For each dry seal centrifugal compressor complying with the requirements in § 60.5380b(a)(6), you must demonstrate continuous compliance according to paragraphs (d)(2) through (4) of this section.


(1) For each wet seal centrifugal compressor affected facility complying by routing emissions to a control device or to a process, you must operate the wet seal emissions collection system to route emissions to a control device or a process through a closed vent system and continuously comply with the cover and closed vent requirements of § 60.5416b. If you comply with § 60.5380b(a)(2) by using a control device, you also must comply with the requirements in paragraph (f) of this section.


(2) You must maintain volumetric flow rate at or below the flow rates specified in § 60.5380b(a)(4) for you self-contained centrifugal compressor, § 60.5380b(a)(5) for your Alaska North Slope centrifugal compressor equipped with a sour seal oil separator and capture system, and § 60.5380b(a)(6) for your centrifugal compressor equipped with dry seals, as applicable. You must conduct the required volumetric flow rate measurement of your self-contained wet seal centrifugal compressor in accordance with § 60.5380b(a)(4), your Alaska North Slope centrifugal compressor equipped with a sour seal oil separator and capture system in accordance with § 60.5380b(a)(5), and your dry seal centrifugal compressor in accordance with § 60.5380b(a)(6), as applicable, on or before 8,760 hours of operation after your last volumetric flow rate measurement which demonstrates compliance with the volumetric flow rate specified in § 60.5380b(a)(4) for your self-contained centrifugal compressor, § 60.5380b(a)(5) for your Alaska North Slope centrifugal compressor equipped with a sour seal oil separator and capture system and § 60.5380b(a)(6) for your centrifugal compressor equipped with dry seals, as applicable.


(3) You must submit the annual reports as required in § 60.5420b(b)(1), (5), and (11)(i) through (iv), as applicable.


(4) You must maintain records as required in § 60.5420b(c)(4), (8) through (10), and (12), as applicable.


(e) *Pump affected facility.* To demonstrate continuous compliance with the GHG and VOC standards for your pump affected facility as required by § 60.5393b, you must comply with paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) For pump affected facilities complying with the requirements of § 60.5393b(a) by routing emissions to a process, and for pump affected facilities complying with the requirements of § 60.5393b(b)(2), or (3), you must route emissions through a closed vent system and continuously comply with the closed vent requirements of § 60.5416b. If you comply with § 60.5393b(b)(3), you also must comply with the requirements in paragraph (f) of this section.


(2) You must submit the annual reports for your pump affected facility as required in § 60.5420b(b)(1), (10), and (11)(i) through (iv), as applicable.


(3) You must maintain the records for your pump affected facility as specified in § 60.5420b(c)(8), (10) through (12), and (15), as applicable.


(f) *Additional continuous compliance requirements for well, centrifugal compressor, reciprocating compressor, process controllers in Alaska, storage vessel, process unit equipment, or pump affected facilities.* For each associated gas well, each gas well that conducts liquids unloading, each centrifugal compressor affected facility, each reciprocating compressor affected facility, each process controller affected facility in Alaska, each storage vessel affected facility, each process unit equipment affected facility, and each pump affected facility referenced to this paragraph from either paragraph (b), (c), (d)(1), (e)(1), (g)(2), (h)(2), (i)(5)(ii)(B), or (j)(12) of this section, you must also install monitoring systems as specified in § 60.5417b, demonstrate continuous compliance according to paragraph (f)(1) of this section, maintain the records in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, and comply with the reporting requirements specified in paragraph (f)(3) of this section.


(1) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the control device performance requirements of § 60.5412b(a) using the procedures specified in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (viii) of this section and conducting the monitoring as required by § 60.5417b. If you use a condenser as the control device to achieve the requirements specified in § 60.5412b(a)(2), you may demonstrate compliance according to paragraph (f)(1)(ix) of this section. You may switch between compliance with paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (viii) of this section and compliance with paragraph (f)(1)(ix) of this section only after at least 1 year of operation in compliance with the selected approach. You must provide notification of such a change in the compliance method in the next annual report, following the change. If you use an enclosed combustion device or a flare as the control device, you must also conduct the monitoring required in paragraph (f)(1)(x) of this section. If you use an enclosed combustion device or flare using an alternative test method approved under § 60.5412b(d), you must use the procedures in paragraph (f)(1)(xi) of this section in lieu of the procedures in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (viii) of this section, but you must still conduct the monitoring required in paragraph (f)(1)(x) of this section.


(i) You must operate below (or above) the site-specific maximum (or minimum) parameter value established according to the requirements of § 60.5417b(f)(1). For flares, you must operate above the limits specified in paragraphs (f)(1)(vii)(B) of this section.


(ii) You must calculate the average of the applicable monitored parameter in accordance with § 60.5417b(e).


(iii) Compliance with the operating parameter limit is achieved when the average of the monitoring parameter value calculated under paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section is either equal to or greater than the minimum parameter value or equal to or less than the maximum parameter value established under paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section. When performance testing of a combustion control device is conducted by the device manufacturer as specified in § 60.5413b(d), compliance with the operating parameter limit is achieved when the criteria in § 60.5413b(e) are met.


(iv) You must operate the continuous monitoring system required in § 60.5417b(a) at all times the affected source is operating, except for periods of monitoring system malfunctions, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions and required monitoring system quality assurance or quality control activities, including, as applicable, system accuracy audits and required zero and span adjustments. A monitoring system malfunction is any sudden, infrequent, not reasonably preventable failure of the monitoring system to provide valid data. Monitoring system failures that are caused in part by poor maintenance or careless operation are not malfunctions. You are required to complete monitoring system repairs in response to monitoring system malfunctions and to return the monitoring system to operation as expeditiously as practicable.


(v) You may not use data recorded during monitoring system malfunctions, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions, or required monitoring system quality assurance or control activities in calculations used to report emissions or operating levels. You must use all the data collected during all other required data collection periods to assess the operation of the control device and associated control system.


(vi) Failure to collect required data is a deviation of the monitoring requirements.


(vii) If you use an enclosed combustion device to meet the requirements of § 60.5412b(a)(1) and you demonstrate compliance using the test procedures specified in § 60.5413b(b), or you use a flare designed and operated in accordance with § 60.5412b(a)(3), you must comply with the applicable requirements in paragraphs (f)(1)(vii)(A) through (E) of this section.


(A) For each enclosed combustion device which is not a catalytic vapor incinerator and for each flare, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (f)(1)(vii)(A)(*1*) through (*4*) of this section.


(*1*) A pilot or combustion flame must be present at all times of operation. An alert must be sent to the nearest control room whenever the pilot or combustion flame is unlit.


(*2*) Devices must be operated with no visible emissions, except for periods not to exceed a total of 1 minute during any 15-minute period. A visible emissions test conducted according to section 11 of Method 22 of appendix A-7 to this part, must be performed at least once every calendar month, separated by at least 15 days between each test. The observation period shall be 15 minutes or once the amount of time visible emissions is present has exceeded 1 minute, whichever time period is less. Alternatively, you may conduct visible emissions monitoring according to § 60.5417b(h).


(*3*) Devices failing the visible emissions test must follow manufacturer's repair instructions, if available, or best combustion engineering practice as outlined in the unit inspection and maintenance plan, to return the unit to compliant operation. All repairs and maintenance activities for each unit must be recorded in a maintenance and repair log and must be available for inspection.


(*4*) Following return to operation from maintenance or repair activity, each device must pass a Method 22 of appendix A-7 to this part visual observation as described in paragraph (f)(1)(vii)(A)(*2*) of this section or be monitored according to § 60.5417b(h).


(B) For flares, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (f)(1)(vii)(B)(*1*) through (*6*) of this section.


(*1*) For unassisted flares, maintain the NHV of the gas sent to the flare at or above 200 Btu/scf.


(*2*) If you use a pressure assisted flare, maintain the NHV of gas sent to the flare at or above 800 Btu/scf.


(*3*) For steam-assisted and air-assisted flares, maintain the NHV_cz_ at or above 270 Btu/scf.


(*4*) For flares with perimeter assist air, maintain the NHV_dil_ at or above 22 Btu/sqft. If the only assist air provided to the flare is perimeter assist air intentionally entrained in lower and/or upper steam at the flare tip and the effective diameter is 9 inches or greater, you are not required to comply with the NHV_dil_ limit.


(*5*) Unless you use a pressure-assisted flare, maintain the flare tip velocity below the applicable limits in § 60.18(b).


*(6*) Maintain the total gas flow to the flare above the minimum inlet gas flow rate. The minimum inlet gas flow rate is established based on manufacturer recommendations.


(C) For enclosed combustion devices for which, during the performance test conducted under § 60.5413b(b), the combustion zone temperature is not an indicator of destruction efficiency, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (f)(1)(vii)(C)(*1*) through (*5*) of this section, as applicable.


(*1*) Maintain the total gas flow to the enclosed combustion device at or above the minimum inlet gas flow rate and at or below the maximum inlet flow rate for the enclosed combustion device established in accordance with § 60.5417b(f).


(*2*) For unassisted enclosed combustion devices, maintain the NHV of the gas sent to the enclosed combustion device at or above 200 Btu/scf.


(*3*) For enclosed combustion devices that use pressure-assisted burner tips to promote mixing at the burner tip, maintain the NHV of the gas sent to the enclosed combustion device at or above 800 Btu/scf.


(*4*) For steam-assisted and air-assisted enclosed combustion devices, maintain the NHV_cz_ at or above 270 Btu/scf.


(*5*) For enclosed combustion devices with perimeter assist air, maintain the NHV_dil_ at or above 22 Btu/sqft. If the only assist air provided to the enclosed combustion device is perimeter assist air intentionally entrained in lower and/or upper steam at the flare tip and the effective diameter is 9 inches or greater, you are not required to comply with the NHV_dil_ limit.


(D) For enclosed combustion devices for which, during the performance test conducted under § 60.5413b(b), the combustion zone temperature is demonstrated to be an indicator of destruction efficiency, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (f)(1)(vii)(D)(*1*) and (*2*) of this section.


(*1*) Maintain the temperature at or above the minimum temperature established during the most recent performance test. The minimum temperature limit established during the most recent performance test is the average temperature recorded during each test run, averaged across the 3 test runs (average of the test run averages).


(*2*) Maintain the total gas flow to the enclosed combustion device at or above the minimum inlet gas flow rate and at or below the maximum inlet flow rate for the enclosed combustion device established in accordance with § 60.5417b(f).


(E) For catalytic vapor incinerators you must operate the catalytic vapor incinerator at or above the minimum temperature of the catalyst bed inlet and at or above the minimum temperature differential between the catalyst bed inlet and the catalyst bed outlet established in accordance with § 60.5417b(f).


(viii) If you use a carbon adsorption system as the control device to meet the requirements of § 60.5412b(a)(2), you must demonstrate compliance by the procedures in paragraphs (f)(1)(viii)(A) and (B) of this section, as applicable.


(A) If you use a regenerative-type carbon adsorption system, you must comply with paragraphs (f)(1)(viii)(A)(*1*) through (*4*) of this section.


(*1*) You must maintain the average regenerative mass flow or volumetric flow to the carbon adsorber during each bed regeneration cycle above the limit established in in accordance with § 60.5413b(c)(2).


(*2*) You must maintain the average carbon bed temperature above the temperature limit established in accordance with § 60.5413b(c)(2) during the carbon bed steaming cycle and below the carbon bed temperature established in in accordance with § 60.5413b(c)(2) after the regeneration cycle.


(*3*) You must check the mechanical connections for leakage at least every month, and you must perform a visual inspection at least every 3 months of all components of the continuous parameter monitoring system for physical and operational integrity and all electrical connections for oxidation and galvanic corrosion if your continuous parameter monitoring system is not equipped with a redundant flow sensor.


(*4*) You must replace all carbon in the carbon adsorption system with fresh carbon on a regular, predetermined time interval that is no longer than the carbon service life established according to § 60.5413b(c)(2).


(B) If you use a nonregenerative-type carbon adsorption system, you must replace all carbon in the control device with fresh carbon on a regular, predetermined time interval that is no longer than the carbon service life established according to § 60.5413b(c)(3).


(ix) If you use a condenser as the control device to achieve the percent reduction performance requirements specified in § 60.5412b(a)(2), you must demonstrate compliance using the procedures in paragraphs (f)(1)(ix)(A) through (E) of this section.


(A) You must establish a site-specific condenser performance curve according to § 60.5417b(f)(2).


(B) You must calculate the daily average condenser outlet temperature in accordance with § 60.5417b(e).


(C) You must determine the condenser efficiency for the current operating day using the daily average condenser outlet temperature calculated under paragraph (f)(1)(ix)(B) of this section and the condenser performance curve established under paragraph (f)(1)(ix)(A) of this section.


(D) Except as provided in paragraphs (f)(1)(ix)(D)(*1*) and (*2*) of this section, at the end of each operating day, you must calculate the 365-day rolling average TOC emission reduction, as appropriate, from the condenser efficiencies as determined in paragraph (f)(1)(ix)(C) of this section.


(*1*) After the compliance dates specified in § 60.5370b(a), if you have less than 120 days of data for determining average TOC emission reduction, you must calculate the average TOC emission reduction for the first 120 days of operation after the compliance date. You have demonstrated compliance with the overall 95.0 percent reduction requirement if the 120-day average TOC emission reduction is equal to or greater than 95.0 percent.


(*2*) After 120 days and no more than 364 days of operation after the compliance date specified in § 60.5370b(a), you must calculate the average TOC emission reduction as the TOC emission reduction averaged over the number of days between the current day and the applicable compliance date. You have demonstrated compliance with the overall 95.0 percent reduction requirement if the average TOC emission reduction is equal to or greater than 95.0 percent.


(E) If you have data for 365 days or more of operation, you have demonstrated compliance with the TOC emission reduction if the rolling 365-day average TOC emission reduction calculated in paragraph (f)(1)(ix)(D) of this section is equal to or greater than 95.0 percent.


(x) During each inspection conducted using an OGI camera under § 60.5397b and during each periodic screening event or each inspection conducted using an OGI camera under § 60.5398b, you must observe each enclosed combustion device and flare to determine if it is operating properly. You must determine whether there is a flame present and whether any uncontrolled emissions from the control device are visible with the OGI camera or the technique used to conduct the periodic screening event. During each inspection conducted under § 60.5397b using AVO, you must observe each enclosed combustion device and flare to determine if it is operating properly. Visually confirm that the pilot or combustion flame is lit and that the pilot or combustion flame is operating properly.


(xi) If you use an enclosed combustion device or flare using an alternative test method approved under § 60.5412b(d), you must comply with paragraphs (f)(1)(xi)(A) through (E) of this section.


(A) You must maintain the combustion efficiency at or above 95.0 percent. Alternatively, if the alternative test method does not directly monitor combustion efficiency, you must comply with the applicable requirements in paragraphs (f)(1)(xi)(A)(*1*) and (*2*) of this section.


(*1*) Maintain the NHV_cz_ at or above 270 Btu/scf.


(*2*) For flares or enclosed combustion devices with perimeter assist air, maintain the NHV_dil_ at or above 22 Btu/sqft. If the only assist air provided to the flare or enclosed combustion device is perimeter assist air intentionally entrained in lower and/or upper steam at the flare tip and the effective diameter is 9 inches or greater, you are only required to comply with the NHV_cz_ limit specified in paragraph (f)(1)(xi)(A)(*1*) of this section.


(B) You must calculate the value of the applicable monitored metric(s) in accordance with the approved alternative test method. Compliance with the limit is achieved when the calculated values are within the range specified in paragraph (f)(1)(xi)(A) of this section.


(C) You must conduct monitoring using the alternative test method at all times the affected source is operating, except for periods of monitoring system malfunctions, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions and required monitoring system quality assurance or quality control activities, including, as applicable, system accuracy audits and required zero and span adjustments. A monitoring system malfunction is any sudden, infrequent, not reasonably preventable failure of the monitoring system to provide valid data. Monitoring system failures that are caused in part by poor maintenance or careless operation are not malfunctions. You are required to complete monitoring system repairs in response to monitoring system malfunctions and to return the monitoring system to operation as expeditiously as practicable.


(D) You may not use data recorded during monitoring system malfunctions, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions, or required monitoring system quality assurance or control activities in calculations used to report values to demonstrate compliance with the limits specified in paragraph (f)(1)(xi)(A) of this section. You must use all the data collected during all other required data collection periods to assess the operation of the control device and associated control system.


(E) Failure to collect required data is a deviation of the monitoring requirements.


(2) You must maintain the records as specified in § 60.5420b(c)(11) and (13).


(3) You must comply with the reporting requirements in § 60.5420b(b)(11) through (13).ecified in § 60.5420b(c)(11) and (13).


(3) You must comply with the reporting requirements in § 60.5420b(b)(11) through (13).


(g) *Reciprocating compressor affected facility.* For each reciprocating compressor affected facility complying with § 60.5385b(a) through (c), you must demonstrate continuous compliance according to paragraphs (g)(1), (5), and (6) of this section. For each reciprocating compressor affected facility complying with § 60.5385b(d)(1) or (2), you must demonstrate continuous compliance according to paragraphs (g)(2), (5) and (6) of this section. For each reciprocating compressor affected facility complying with § 60.5385b(d)(3), you must demonstrate continuous compliance according to paragraphs (g)(3) through (6) of this section.


(1) You must maintain the volumetric flow rate at or below 2 scfm per cylinder (or at or below the combined volumetric flow rate determined by multiplying the number of cylinders by 2 scfm), and you must conduct the required volumetric flow rate measurement of your reciprocating compressor rod packing vents in accordance with § 60.5385b(b) on or before 8,760 hours of operation after your last volumetric flow rate measurement which demonstrated compliance with the applicable volumetric flow rate.


(2) You must operate the rod packing emissions collection system to route emissions to a control device or to a process through a closed vent system and continuously comply with the cover and closed vent requirements of § 60.5416b. If you comply with § 60.5385b(d) by using a control device, you also must comply with the requirements in paragraph (f) of this section.


(3) You must continuously monitor the number of hours of operation for each reciprocating compressor affected facility since initial startup, since May 7, 2024, since the previous flow rate measurement, or since the date of the most recent reciprocating compressor rod packing replacement, whichever date is latest.


(4) You must replace the reciprocating compressor rod packing on or before the total number of hours of operation reaches 8,760 hours.


(5) You must submit the annual reports as required in § 60.5420b(b)(1), (6), and (11)(i) through (iv), as applicable.


(6) You must maintain records as required in § 60.5420b(c)(5), (8) through (10), and (12), as applicable.


(h) *Process controller affected facility.* To demonstrate continuous compliance with GHG and VOC emission standards for your process controller affected facility as required by § 60.5390b, you must comply with paragraphs (h)(1) through (4) of this section, as applicable.


(1) You must demonstrate that your process controller affected facility does not emit any VOC or methane to the atmosphere by meeting the requirements of paragraphs (h)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section.


(i) If you comply by routing the emissions to a process, you must route emissions through a closed vent system and continuously comply with the closed vent system inspection and monitoring requirements of § 60.5416b.


(ii) If you comply by using a self-contained natural gas-driven process controller, you must conduct the no identifiable emissions inspections required by § 60.5416b(b).


(2) For each process controller affected facility located at a site in Alaska that does not have access to electrical power and that complies by reducing methane and VOC emissions from all controllers in the process controller affected facility by 95.0 percent in accordance with § 60.5390b(b)(3), you must route emissions to a control device through a closed vent system and continuously comply with the closed vent requirements of § 60.5416b and the requirements in paragraph (f) of this section for the control device.


(3) You must submit the annual report for your process controller as required in § 60.5420b(b)(1), (7), and (11) through (13), as applicable.


(4) You must maintain the records as specified in § 60.5420b(c)(6), (8), (10), and (12) for each process controller affected facility, as applicable.


(i) *Storage vessel affected facility.* For each storage vessel affected facility, you must demonstrate continuous compliance with the requirements of § 60.5395b according to paragraphs (i)(1) through (10) of this section, as applicable.


(1) For each storage vessel affected facility complying with the requirements of § 60.5395b(a)(2), you must demonstrate continuous compliance according to paragraphs (i)(5), (9) and (10) of this section.


(2) For each storage vessel affected facility complying with the requirements of § 60.5395b(a)(3), you must demonstrate continuous compliance according to paragraphs (i)(2)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section, as applicable, and (i)(9) and (10) of this section.


(i) You must maintain the uncontrolled actual VOC emissions at less than 4 tpy and the uncontrolled actual methane emissions at less than 14 tpy from the storage vessel affected facility.


(ii) You must comply with paragraph (i)(5) of this section as soon as liquids from the well are routed to the storage vessel affected facility following fracturing or refracturing according to the requirements of § 60.5395b(a)(3)(i).


(iii) You must comply with paragraph (i)(5) of this section within 30 days of the monthly determination according to the requirements of § 60.5395b(a)(3)(ii), where the monthly emissions determination indicates that VOC emissions from your storage vessel affected facility increase to 4 tpy or greater or methane emissions from your storage vessel affected facility increase to 14 tpy or greater and the increase is not associated with fracturing or refracturing of a well feeding the storage vessel affected facility.


(3) For each storage vessel affected facility or portion of a storage vessel affected facility removed from service, you must demonstrate compliance with the requirements of § 60.5395b(c)(1) or (2) by complying with paragraphs (i)(6), (7), (9), and (10) of this section.


(4) For each storage vessel affected facility or portion of a storage vessel affected facility returned to service, you must demonstrate compliance with the requirements of § 60.5395b(c)(3) and (4) by complying with paragraphs (i)(8) through (10) of this section.


(5) For each storage vessel affected facility, you must comply with paragraphs (i)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) You must reduce VOC emissions as specified in § 60.5395b(a)(2).


(ii) For each control device installed to meet the requirements of § 60.5395b(a)(2), you must demonstrate continuous compliance with the performance requirements of § 60.5412b for each storage vessel affected facility using the procedure specified in paragraphs (i)(5)(ii)(A) and (i)(5)(ii)(B) of this section. When routing emissions to a process, you must demonstrate continuous compliance as specified in paragraph (i)(5)(ii)(A) of this section.


(A) You must comply with § 60.5416b for each cover and closed vent system.


(B) You must comply with the requirements specified in paragraph (f) of this section.


(6) You must completely empty and degas each storage vessel, such that each storage vessel no longer contains crude oil, condensate, produced water or intermediate hydrocarbon liquids. For a portion of a storage vessel affected facility to be removed from service, you must completely empty and degas the storage vessel(s), such that the storage vessel(s) no longer contains crude oil, condensate, produced water, or intermediate hydrocarbon liquids. A storage vessel where liquid is left on walls, as bottom clingage, or in pools due to floor irregularity is considered to be completely empty.


(7) You must disconnect the storage vessel(s) from the tank battery by isolating the storage vessel(s) from the tank battery such that the storage vessel(s) is no longer manifolded to the tank battery by liquid or vapor transfer.


(8) You must determine the affected facility status of a storage vessel returned to service as provided in § 60.5365b(e)(6).


(9) You must submit the annual reports as required by § 60.5420b(b)(1), (8), and (11)(i) through (iv).


(10) You must maintain the records as required by § 60.5420b(c)(7) through (10) and (c)(12), as applicable.


(j) *Process unit equipment affected facility.* For each process unit equipment affected facility, you must demonstrate continuous compliance with the requirements of § 60.5400b according to paragraphs (j)(1) through (4) and(11) through (15) of this section, unless you meet and comply with the exception in § 60.5402b(b), (e), or (f) or meet the exemption in § 60.5402b(c). Alternatively, if you comply with the GHG and VOC standards for process unit affected facilities using the standards in § 60.5401b, you must comply with paragraphs (j)(5) through (15) of this section, unless you meet the exemption in § 60.5402b(b) or (c) or the exception in § 60.5402b(e) and (f).


(1) You must conduct monitoring for each pump in light liquid service, pressure relief device in gas/vapor service, valve in gas/vapor and light liquid service and connector in gas/vapor and light liquid service as required by § 60.5400b(b).


(2) You must conduct monitoring as required by § 60.5400b(c) for each pump in light liquid service.


(3) You must conduct monitoring as required by § 60.5400b(d) for each pressure relief device in gas/vapor service.


(4) You must comply with the equipment requirements for each open-ended valve or line as required by § 60.5400b(e).


(5) You must conduct monitoring for each pump in light liquid service as required by § 60.5401b(b).


(6) You must conduct monitoring for each pressure relief device in gas/vapor service as required by § 60.5401b(c).


(7) You must comply with the equipment requirements for each open-ended valve or line as required by § 60.5401b(d).


(8) You must conduct monitoring for each valve in gas/vapor or light liquid service as required by § 60.5401b(f).


(9) You must conduct monitoring for each pump, valve, and connector in heavy liquid service and each pressure relief device in light liquid or heavy liquid service as required by § 60.5401b(g).


(10) You must conduct monitoring for each connector in gas/vapor or light liquid service as required by § 60.5401b(h).


(11) You must collect emissions and meet the closed vent system requirements as required by § 60.5416b for each pump equipped with a dual mechanical seal system that degasses the barrier fluid reservoir to a process or a control device, each pump which captures and transports leakage from the seal or seals to a process or control device, or each pressure relief device which captures and transports leakage through the pressure relief device to a process or control device.


(12) You comply with the requirements specified in paragraph (f) of this section.


(13) You must tag and repair each identified leak as required in § 60.5400(h) or § 60.5401b(i), as applicable.


(14) You must submit semiannual reports as required by § 60.5422b and the annual reports in § 60.5420b(b)(11)(i) through (iv), as applicable.


(15) You must maintain the records specified by § 60.5420b(c)(8), (c)(10), and (c)(12) as applicable and § 60.5421b.


(k) *Sweetening unit affected facility.* For each sweetening unit affected facility, you must demonstrate continuous compliance with the requirements of § 60.5405b(b) according to paragraphs (k)(1) through (10) of this section.


(1) You must determine the minimum required continuous reduction efficiency of SO_2_ emissions (Z_c_) as required by § 60.5406b(b).


(2) You must determine the emission reduction efficiency (R) achieved by your sulfur reduction technology using the procedures in § 60.5406b(c)(1) through (c)(4).


(3) You must demonstrate compliance with the standard at § 60.5405b(b) by comparing the minimum required sulfur dioxide emission reduction efficiency (Z_c_) to the emission reduction efficiency achieved by the sulfur recovery technology (R), where R must be greater than or equal to Z_c_.


(4) You must calibrate, maintain, and operate monitoring devices or perform measurements to determine the accumulation of sulfur product, the H_2_S concentration, the average acid gas flow rate, and the sulfur feed rate in accordance with § 60.5407b(a).


(5) You must determine the required SO_2_ emissions reduction efficiency each 24-hour period in accordance with § 60.5407b(a), § 60.5407b(d), and § 60.5407b(e), as applicable.


(6) You must calibrate, maintain, and operate monitoring devices and continuous emission monitors in accordance with § 60.5407b(b), (f), and (g), if you use an oxidation control system or a reduction control system followed by an incineration device.


(7) You must continuously operate the incineration device, if you use an oxidation control system or a reduction control system followed by an incineration device.


(8) You must calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous monitoring system to measure the emission rate of reduced sulfur compounds in accordance with § 60.5407b(c), (f), and (g), if you use a reduction control system not followed by an incineration device.


(9) You must submit the reports as required by § 60.5423b(d).


(10) You must maintain the records as required by § 60.5423b(a), (e), and (f), as applicable.


(l) *Continuous compliance.* For each fugitive emissions components affected facility, you must demonstrate continuous compliance with the requirements of § 60.5397b(a) according to paragraphs (l)(1) through (4) of this section.


(1) *Monitoring.* You must conduct periodic monitoring surveys as required in § 60.5397b(e) and (g).


(2) *Repairs.* You must repair each identified source of fugitive emissions as required in § 60.5397b(h).


(3) *Reports.* You must submit annual reports for fugitive emissions components affected facilities as required in § 60.5420b(b)(1) and (9).


(4) *Record*s. You must maintain records as specified in § 60.5420b(c)(14).



---

[N] [89 FR 17043, Mar. 8, 2024, as amended at 89 FR 62898, Aug. 1, 2024]




