# ยง 57.202   Definitions.

As used in this subpart: 


*Act* means the Public Health Service Act, as amended. 


*Date upon which a student ceases to be a full-time student* means the first day of the month which is nearest to the date upon which an individual ceases to be a full-time student as defined in this section. 


*Default* means the failure of a borrower of a loan made under this subpart to make an installment payment when due, or comply with any other term of the promissory note for such loan, except that a loan made under this subpart shall not be considered to be in default if the loan is discharged in bankruptcy, the borrower's repayment schedule has been renegotiated and the borrower is complying with the renegotiated schedule, or the loan is in forbearance. 


*Federal capital loan* means a loan made by the Secretary to a school under section 744(a) of the Act, as in effect prior to October 1, 1977, the proceeds of which are to be returned to the Secretary. 


*Full-time student* means a student who is enrolled in a health professions school and pursuing a course of study which is a full-time academic workload, as determined by the school, leading to a degree specified in section 722(b) of the Act. 


*Grace period* means the period of 1 year beginning on the date upon which a student ceases to be a full-time student at a school of medicine, osteopathic medicine, dentistry, pharmacy, podiatric medicine, optometry, or veterinary medicine.


*Health professions school* or *school,* for purposes of this subpart, means a public or private nonprofit school of medicine, school of dentistry, school of osteopathic medicine, school of pharmacy, school of podiatric medicine, school of optometry, or school of veterinary medicine as defined in section 799(1)(A) of the Act. 


*Health professions student loan* means the amount of money advanced to a student by a school from a health professions student loan fund under a properly executed promissory note. 


*Institutional capital contribution* means the money provided by a school, in an amount not less than one-ninth of the federal capital contribution, and deposited in a health professions student loan fund. 


*National of the United States* means: (1) A citizen of the United States, or (2) a person who, though not a citizen of the United States, owes permanent allegiance to the United States, as defined in the Immigration and Nationality Act, at 8 U.S.C. section 1101(a)(22).


*School year* means the traditional approximately 9-month September to June annual session. For the purpose of computing school year equivalents for students who, during a 12-month period, attend for a longer period than the traditional school year, the school year will be considered to be 9 months in length. 


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Health and Human Services and any other officer or employee of the Department of Health and Human Services to whom the authority involved has been delegated. 


*State* means, in addition to the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Republic of Palau, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the Federated States of Micronesia. 



---

[N] [44 FR 29055, May 18, 1979, as amended at 52 FR 20987, June 3, 1987; 53 FR 46549, Nov. 17, 1988; 56 FR 19293, Apr. 26, 1991; 56 FR 25446, June 4, 1991; 61 FR 6123, Feb. 16, 1996]




