# § 86.010-2   Definitions.

The definitions of § 86.004-2 continue to apply to 2004 and later model year vehicles. The definitions listed in this section apply beginning with the 2010 model year.


*DTC* means diagnostic trouble code.


*Engine or engine system* as used in §§ 86.007-17, 86.007-30, 86.010-18, and 86.010-38 means the engine, fuel system, induction system, aftertreatment system, and everything that makes up the system for which an engine manufacturer has received a certificate of conformity.


*Engine start* as used in § 86.010-18 means the point when the engine reaches a speed 150 rpm below the normal, warmed-up idle speed (as determined in the drive position for vehicles equipped with an automatic transmission). For hybrid vehicles or for engines employing alternative engine start hardware or strategies (e.g., integrated starter and generators.), the manufacturer may use an alternative definition for engine start (e.g., key-on) provided the alternative definition is based on equivalence to an engine start for a conventional vehicle.


*Functional check*, in the context of onboard diagnostics, means verifying that a component and/or system that receives information from a control computer responds properly to a command from the control computer.


*Ignition cycle* as used in § 86.010-18 means a cycle that begins with engine start, meets the engine start definition for at least two seconds plus or minus one second, and ends with engine shutoff.


*Limp-home operation* as used in § 86.010-18 means an operating mode that an engine is designed to enter upon determining that normal operation cannot be maintained. In general, limp-home operation implies that a component or system is not operating properly or is believed to be not operating properly.


*Malfunction* means the conditions have been met that require the activation of an OBD malfunction indicator light and storage of a DTC.


*MIL-on DTC* means the diagnostic trouble code stored when an OBD system has detected and confirmed that a malfunction exists (e.g., typically on the second drive cycle during which a given OBD monitor has evaluated a system or component). Industry standards may refer to this as a confirmed or an active DTC.


*Onboard Diagnostics (OBD) group* means a combination of engines, engine families, or engine ratings that use the same OBD strategies and similar calibrations.


*Pending DTC* means the diagnostic trouble code stored upon the detection of a potential malfunction.


*Permanent DTC* means a DTC that corresponds to a MIL-on DTC and is stored in non-volatile random access memory (NVRAM). A permanent DTC can only be erased by the OBD system itself and cannot be erased through human interaction with the OBD system or any onboard computer.


*Potential malfunction* means that conditions have been detected that meet the OBD malfunction criteria but for which more drive cycles are allowed to provide further evaluation prior to confirming that a malfunction exists.


*Previous-MIL-on DTC* means a DTC that corresponds to a MIL-on DTC but is distinguished by representing a malfunction that the OBD system has determined no longer exists but for which insufficient operation has occurred to satisfy the DTC erasure provisions.


*Rationality check*, in the context of onboard diagnostics, means verifying that a component that provides input to a control computer provides an accurate input to the control computer while in the range of normal operation and when compared to all other available information.


*Similar conditions*, in the context of onboard diagnostics, means engine conditions having an engine speed within 375 rpm, load conditions within 20 percent, and the same warm up status (i.e., cold or hot). The manufacturer may use other definitions of similar conditions based on comparable timeliness and reliability in detecting similar engine operation.



---

[N] [74 FR 8369, Feb. 24, 2009]




