# ยง 162.94   Filing of a claim for seized property.

(a) *Generally.* In lieu of filing a petition for relief in accordance with part 171 of this chapter, any person claiming property seized by Customs in a non-judicial civil forfeiture proceeding may file a claim with the appropriate Fines, Penalties, and Forfeitures Officer. 


(b) *When filed.* Unless the Fines, Penalties, and Forfeitures Officer provides additional time to the person filing a claim for seized property pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, the claim must be filed within 35 calendar days after the date the notice of seizure is mailed. If the notice of seizure is not received, a claim may be filed not later than 30 calendar days after the date of final publication of notice of seizure and intent to forfeit the property. 


(c) *Form of claim.* The claim must be in writing but need not be made in any particular form. Claim forms will be made generally available upon request.


(d) *Content of claim.* The claim must: 


(1) Identify the specific property being claimed; 


(2) State the claimant's interest in the property; and


(3) Be made under oath, subject to penalty of perjury. 


(e) *No bond required.* Any person may make a claim under this section without posting a bond.


(f) *Effect of claim.* Not later than 90 calendar days after a claim has been filed, the Government will file an appropriate complaint for forfeiture, except that a court in the district in which the complaint will be filed may extend the period for filing a complaint for good cause shown or upon agreement of the parties. 



---

[N] [T.D. 00-88, 65 FR 78091, Dec. 14, 2000, as amended by T.D. 02-08, 67 FR 9191, Feb. 28, 2002]




