# § 318.13-4   Authorization of certain fruits and vegetables for interstate movement.

(a) *Determination by the Administrator.* No fruit or vegetable is authorized for interstate movement from Hawaii or the territories unless the Administrator has determined that the risk posed by each quarantine pest associated with the fruit or vegetable can be reasonably mitigated by the application of one or more phytosanitary measures designated by the Administrator.


(b) *Designated phytosanitary measures.* (1) The fruits and vegetables are subject to phytosanitary treatments, which could include, but are not limited to, pest control treatments in the field or growing site, and post-harvest treatments.


(2) The fruits and vegetables are subject to growing area pest mitigations, which could include, but are not limited to, detection surveys, trapping requirements, pest exclusionary structures, and field inspections.


(3) The fruits and vegetables are subject to safeguarding and movement mitigations, which could include, but are not limited to, safeguarded transport, box labeling, limited distribution, insect-proof boxes, and importation as commercial consignments only.


(4) The fruits and vegetables are subject to administrative mitigations, which could include, but are not limited to, registered fields or orchards, registered growing sites, registered packinghouses, inspection in the State of origin by an inspector, and operational workplan monitoring.


(5) The fruits and vegetables are subject to any other measures deemed appropriate by the Administrator.


(c) *Authorized fruits and vegetables*—(1) *Comprehensive list.* The name and origin of all fruits and vegetables authorized for interstate movement under this section, as well as the applicable requirements for their movement, may be found on the internet at *https://www.aphis.usda.gov/aphis/ourfocus/planthealth/complete-list-of-electronic-manuals.*

(2) *Fruits and vegetables authorized for interstate movement prior to October 15, 2018.* Fruits and vegetables that were authorized for interstate movement under this subpart as of October 15, 2018 may continue to be moved interstate under the same requirements that applied before October 15, 2018, except as provided in paragraph (c)(4) of this section.


(3) *Other fruits and vegetables.* Fruits and vegetables not already authorized for interstate movement as described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section may be authorized for interstate movement only after:


(i) APHIS has analyzed the pest risk posed by the interstate movement of a fruit or vegetable and has determined that the risk posed by each quarantine pest associated with the fruit or vegetable can be reasonably mitigated by the application of one or more phytosanitary measures;


(ii) APHIS has made its pest risk analysis and determination available for public comment for at least 60 days through a notice published in the _Federal Register_; and


(iii) The Administrator has announced his or her decision in a subsequent _Federal Register_ notice to begin allowing interstate movement of the fruit or vegetable subject to the phytosanitary measures specified in the notice.


(4) *Changes to phytosanitary measures.* (i) If the Administrator determines that the phytosanitary measures required for a fruit or vegetable that has been authorized interstate movement under this subpart are no longer sufficient to reasonably mitigate the pest risk posed by the fruit or vegetable, APHIS will prohibit or further restrict interstate movement of the fruit or vegetable. APHIS will also publish a notice in the _Federal Register_ advising the public of its finding. The notice will specify the amended interstate movement requirements, provide an effective date for the change, and invite public comment on the subject.


(ii) If the Administrator determines that any of the phytosanitary measures required for a fruit or vegetable that has been authorized interstate movement under this subpart are no longer necessary to reasonably mitigate the pest risk posed by the fruit or vegetable, APHIS will make new pest risk documentation available for public comment, in accordance with paragraph (c)(3) of this section, prior to allowing interstate movement of the fruit or vegetable subject to the phytosanitary measures specified in the notice.



---

[N] [83 FR 46637, Sept. 14, 2018]




