# ยง 35.900   Purpose and applicability.

(a) *Purpose and applicability.* (1) The purpose of this subpart J is to establish procedures to eliminate as far as practicable lead-based paint hazards in a residential property that receives Federal rehabilitation assistance under a program administered by HUD. Rehabilitation assistance does not include project-based rental assistance, rehabilitation mortgage insurance or assistance to public housing.


(2) The requirements of this subpart shall not apply to HOME funds which are committed to a specific project in accordance with ยง 92.2 of this title before September 15, 2000. Such projects shall be subject to the requirements of ยง 92.355 of this title that were in effect at the time of project commitment or the requirements of this subpart.


(3) For the purposes of the Indian Housing Block Grant program and the CDBG Entitlement program, the requirements of this subpart shall apply to all residential rehabilitation activities (except those otherwise exempted) for which funds are first obligated on or after September 15, 2000. For the purposes of the State, HUD-Administered Small Cities, and Insular Areas CDBG programs, the requirements of this subpart shall apply to all covered activities (except those otherwise exempted) for which grant funding is awarded to the unit of local government by the State or HUD, as applicable, on or after September 15, 2000. For the purposes of the Emergency Shelter Grant Program (42 U.S.C. 11371-11378) and the formula grants awarded under the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program (HOPWA) (42 U.S.C. 12901 *et. seq.*), the requirements of this subpart shall apply to activities for which program funds are first obligated on or after September 15, 2000.


(4) For the purposes of competitively awarded grants under the HOPWA Program and the Supportive Housing Program (42 U.S.C. 11481-11389), the requirements of this subpart shall apply to grants awarded under Notices of Funding Availability published on or after September 15, 2000.


(5) For the purposes of the Indian CDBG program (ยง 1003.607 of this title), the requirements of this subpart shall not apply to funds whose notice of funding availability is announced or funding letter is sent before September 15, 2000. Such project grantees shall be subject to the regulations in effect at the time of announcement or funding letter.


(b) The grantee or participating jurisdiction may assign to a subrecipient or other entity the responsibilities set forth in this subpart.




