# § 63.660   Storage vessel provisions.

On and after the applicable compliance date for a Group 1 storage vessel located at a new or existing source as specified in § 63.640(h), the owner or operator of a Group 1 storage vessel storing liquid with a maximum true vapor pressure less than 76.6 kilopascals (11.1 pounds per square inch) that is part of a new or existing source shall comply with either the requirements in subpart WW or SS of this part according to the requirements in paragraphs (a) through (i) of this section and the owner or operator of a Group 1 storage vessel storing liquid with a maximum true vapor pressure greater than or equal to 76.6 kilopascals (11.1 pounds per square inch) that is part of a new or existing source shall comply with the requirements in subpart SS of this part according to the requirements in paragraphs (a) through (i) of this section.


(a) As used in this section, all terms not defined in § 63.641 shall have the meaning given them in subpart A, WW, or SS of this part. The definitions of “Group 1 storage vessel” (paragraph (2)) and “Storage vessel” in § 63.641 shall apply in lieu of the definition of “Storage vessel” in § 63.1061.


(1) An owner or operator may use good engineering judgment or test results to determine the stored liquid weight percent total organic HAP for purposes of group determination. Data, assumptions, and procedures used in the determination shall be documented.


(2) When an owner or operator and the Administrator do not agree on whether the annual average weight percent organic HAP in the stored liquid is above or below 4 percent for a storage vessel at an existing source or above or below 2 percent for a storage vessel at a new source, an appropriate method (based on the type of liquid stored) as published by EPA or a consensus-based standards organization shall be used. Consensus-based standards organizations include, but are not limited to, the following: ASTM International (100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box CB700, West Conshohocken, Pennsylvania 19428-B2959, (800) 262-1373, *http://www.astm.org*), the American National Standards Institute (ANSI, 1819 L Street NW., 6th Floor, Washington, DC 20036, (202) 293-8020, *http://www.ansi.org*), the American Gas Association (AGA, 400 North Capitol Street NW., 4th Floor, Washington, DC 20001, (202) 824-7000, *http://www.aga.org*), the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME, Three Park Avenue, New York, NY 10016-5990, (800) 843-2763, *http://www.asme.org*), the American Petroleum Institute (API, 1220 L Street NW., Washington, DC 20005-4070, (202) 682-8000, *http://www.api.org*), and the North American Energy Standards Board (NAESB, 801 Travis Street, Suite 1675, Houston, TX 77002, (713) 356-0060, *http://www.naesb.org*).


(b) A floating roof storage vessel complying with the requirements of subpart WW of this part may comply with the control option specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section and, if equipped with a ladder having at least one slotted leg, shall comply with one of the control options as described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. If the floating roof storage vessel does not meet the requirements of § 63.1063(a)(2)(i) through (a)(2)(viii) as of June 30, 2014, these requirements do not apply until the next time the vessel is completely emptied and degassed, or January 30, 2026, whichever occurs first.


(1) In addition to the options presented in §§ 63.1063(a)(2)(viii)(A) and (B) and 63.1064, a floating roof storage vessel may comply with § 63.1063(a)(2)(viii) using a flexible enclosure device and either a gasketed or welded cap on the top of the guidepole.


(2) Each opening through a floating roof for a ladder having at least one slotted leg shall be equipped with one of the configurations specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) A pole float in the slotted leg and pole wipers for both legs. The wiper or seal of the pole float must be at or above the height of the pole wiper.


(ii) A ladder sleeve and pole wipers for both legs of the ladder.


(iii) A flexible enclosure device and either a gasketed or welded cap on the top of the slotted leg.


(c) For the purposes of this subpart, references shall apply as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (6) of this section.


(1) All references to “the proposal date for a referencing subpart” and “the proposal date of the referencing subpart” in subpart WW of this part mean June 30, 2014.


(2) All references to “promulgation of the referencing subpart” and “the promulgation date of the referencing subpart” in subpart WW of this part mean February 1, 2016.


(3) All references to “promulgation date of standards for an affected source or affected facility under a referencing subpart” in subpart SS of this part mean February 1, 2016.


(4) All references to “the proposal date of the relevant standard established pursuant to CAA section 112(f)” in subpart SS of this part mean June 30, 2014.


(5) All references to “the proposal date of a relevant standard established pursuant to CAA section 112(d)” in subpart SS of this part mean July 14, 1994.


(6) All references to the “required control efficiency” in subpart SS of this part mean reduction of organic HAP emissions by 95 percent or to an outlet concentration of 20 ppmv.


(d) For an uncontrolled fixed roof storage vessel that commenced construction on or before June 30, 2014, and that meets the definition of “Group 1 storage vessel”, paragraph (2), in § 63.641 but not the definition of “Group 1 storage vessel”, paragraph (1), in § 63.641, the requirements of § 63.982 and/or § 63.1062 do not apply until the next time the storage vessel is completely emptied and degassed, or January 30, 2026, whichever occurs first.


(e) For storage vessels previously subject to requirements in § 63.646, initial inspection requirements in § 63.1063(c)(1) and (c)(2)(i) (*i.e.,* those related to the initial filling of the storage vessel) or in § 63.983(b)(1)(i)(A), as applicable, are not required. Failure to perform other inspections and monitoring required by this section shall constitute a violation of the applicable standard of this subpart.


(f) References in § 63.1066(a) to initial startup notification requirements do not apply.


(g) References to the Notification of Compliance Status in § 63.999(b) mean the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.655(f).


(h) References to the Periodic Reports in §§ 63.1066(b) and 63.999(c) mean the Periodic Report required by § 63.655(g).


(i) Owners or operators electing to comply with the requirements in subpart SS of this part for a Group 1 storage vessel must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (i)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) If a flare is used as a control device, the flare shall meet the requirements of § 63.670 instead of the flare requirements in § 63.987.


(2) If a closed vent system contains a bypass line, the owner or operator shall comply with the provisions of either § 63.983(a)(3)(i) or (ii) or paragraph (iii) of this section for each closed vent system that contains bypass lines that could divert a vent stream either directly to the atmosphere or to a control device that does not comply with the requirements in subpart SS of this part. Except as provided in paragraphs (i)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section, use of the bypass at any time to divert a Group 1 storage vessel either directly to the atmosphere or to a control device that does not comply with the requirements in subpart SS of this part is an emissions standards violation. Equipment such as low leg drains and equipment subject to § 63.648 are not subject to this paragraph (i)(2).


(i) If planned routine maintenance of the control device cannot be performed during periods that storage vessel emissions are vented to the control device or when the storage vessel is taken out of service for inspections or other planned maintenance reasons, the owner or operator may bypass the control device.


(ii) Periods for which storage vessel control device may be bypassed for planned routine maintenance of the control device shall not exceed 240 hours per calendar year.


(iii) Use a cap, blind flange, plug, or a second valve for an open-ended valve or line following the requirements specified in § 60.482-6(a)(2), (b), and (c).


(3) If storage vessel emissions are routed to a fuel gas system or process, the fuel gas system or process shall be operating at all times when regulated emissions are routed to it. The exception in § 63.984(a)(1) does not apply.



---

[N] [80 FR 75257, Dec. 1, 2015, as amended at 83 FR 60719, Nov. 26, 2018; 85 FR 6083, Feb. 4, 2020]




