# ยง 765.305   Release of security interest.

(a) When Agency security is sold, exchanged, or consumed in accordance with the agreement for the use of proceeds, the Agency will release its security interest to the extent of the value of the security disposed.


(b) Security interests on wool and mohair may be released when the security is marketed by consignment, provided all of the following conditions are met:


(1) The borrower assigns to the Agency the proceeds of any advances made, or to be made, on the wool or mohair by the broker, less shipping, handling, processing, and marketing costs;


(2) The borrower assigns to the Agency the proceeds of the sale of the wool or mohair, less any remaining costs in shipping, handling, processing, and marketing, and less the amount of any advance (including any interest which may have accrued on the advance) made by the broker against the wool or mohair; and


(3) The borrower and broker agree that the net proceeds of any advances on, or sale of, the wool or mohair will be paid by checks made payable jointly to the borrower and the Agency.




(c) The Agency will release its lien on chattel security without compensation, after written request from the borrower, provided all the following criteria are satisfied:


(1) The borrower is current on all loan accounts with FSA and has not received PLS, DBSA, or DSA on any loan within the last 36 months;


(2) The borrower has paid in full scheduled direct term loan installments that include principal reduction in each of the last 3 calendar years;


(3) After the release, the security margin on each Agency direct loan will be 125 percent (or more, if it is not practicable to separate the property, if necessary to ensure the loan is fully secured for the life of the loan, or if the borrower requests only a portion of Agency security to be released). The value of the retained and released security will normally be based on appraisals obtained as specified in ยง 761.7 of this chapter; however, well-documented recent sales of similar properties can be used if the Agency determines a supportable decision can be made without current appraisals;


(4) Any asset requested for release must serve only as security for term loan(s) that have been outstanding for at least the prior 36 months and cannot serve as adequate security for another existing Agency direct loan; and


(5) Except for CL, the borrower is unable to fully graduate as specified in ยง 765.101.





---

[N] [72 FR 63309, Nov. 8, 2007, as amended at 78 FR 65531, Nov. 1, 2013; 89 FR 65042, Aug. 8, 2024]




