# ยง 1324.408   State plans.

(a) State entities must develop and submit to the Director of the Office of Elder Justice and Adult Protective Services, the position designated by 42 U.S.C. 3011(e)(1), a State APS plan that meets the requirements set forth by the Assistant Secretary for Aging.


(b) The State plan shall be developed by the State entity receiving the Federal award under 42 U.S.C 1397m-1 in collaboration with APS programs and other State APS entities, if applicable.


(c) The State plan shall be updated at least every 5 years but may be updated more frequently as determined by the State entity.


(d) The State plan shall contain an assurance that all policies and procedures required herein will be developed and adhered to by the State APS system.


(e) State plans will be reviewed and approved by the Director of the Office of Elder Justice and Adult Protective Services. Any State dissatisfied with the final decision of the Director of the Office of Elder Justice and Adult Protective Services may appeal to the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Aging not later than 30 calendar days after the date of the Director of the Office of Elder Justice and Adult Protective Services' final decision and will be afforded the opportunity for a hearing before the Deputy Assistant Secretary. If the State is dissatisfied with the final decision of the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Aging, it may appeal to the Assistant Secretary for Aging not later than 30 calendar days after the date of the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Aging's decision.








