# § 103.30   Appropriate bargaining units in the health care industry.

(a) This portion of the rule shall be applicable to acute care hospitals, as defined in paragraph (f) of this section: Except in extraordinary circumstances and in circumstances in which there are existing non-conforming units, the following shall be appropriate units, and the only appropriate units, for petitions filed pursuant to section 9(c)(1)(A)(i) or 9(c)(1)(B) of the National Labor Relations Act, as amended, except that, if sought by labor organizations, various combinations of units may also be appropriate:


(1) All registered nurses.


(2) All physicians.


(3) All professionals except for registered nurses and physicians.


(4) All technical employees.


(5) All skilled maintenance employees.


(6) All business office clerical employees.


(7) All guards.


(8) All nonprofessional employees except for technical employees, skilled maintenance employees, business office clerical employees, and guards.


(b) Where extraordinary circumstances exist, the Board shall determine appropriate units by adjudication.


(c) Where there are existing non-conforming units in acute care hospitals, and a petition for additional units is filed pursuant to sec. 9(c)(1)(A)(i) or 9(c)(1)(B), the Board shall find appropriate only units which comport, insofar as practicable, with the appropriate unit set forth in paragraph (a) of this section.


(d) The Board will approve consent agreements providing for elections in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, but nothing shall preclude regional directors from approving stipulations not in accordance with paragraph (a), as long as the stipulations are otherwise acceptable.


(e) This rule will apply to all cases decided on or after May 22, 1989.


(f) For purposes of this rule, the term:


(1) *Hospital* is defined in the same manner as defined in the Medicare Act, which definition is incorporated herein (currently set forth in 42 U.S.C. 1395x(e), as revised 1988);


(2) *Acute care hospital* is defined as: either a short term care hospital in which the average length of patient stay is less than thirty days, or a short term care hospital in which over 50% of all patients are admitted to units where the average length of patient stay is less than thirty days. Average length of stay shall be determined by reference to the most recent twelve month period preceding receipt of a representation petition for which data is readily available. The term “acute care hospital” shall include those hospitals operating as acute care facilities even if those hospitals provide such services as, for example, long term care, outpatient care, psychiatric care, or rehabilitative care, but shall exclude facilities that are primarily nursing homes, primarily psychiatric hospitals, or primarily rehabilitation hospitals. Where, after issuance of a subpoena, an employer does not produce records sufficient for the Board to determine the facts, the Board may presume the employer is an acute care hospital.


(3) *Psychiatric hospital* is defined in the same manner as defined in the Medicare Act, which definition is incorporated herein (currently set forth in 42 U.S.C. 1395x(f)).


(4) The term *rehabilitation hospital* includes and is limited to all hospitals accredited as such by either Joint Committee on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations or by Commission for Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities.


(5) A *non-conforming unit* is defined as a unit other than those described in paragraphs (a) (1) through (8) of this section or a combination among those eight units.


(g) Appropriate units in all other health care facilities: The Board will determine appropriate units in other health care facilities, as defined in section 2(14) of the National Labor Relations Act, as amended, by adjudication.



---

[N] [54 FR 16347, Apr. 21, 1989]




