# § 141.712   Unfiltered system 

(a) *Determination of mean Cryptosporidium level.* (1) Following completion of the initial source water monitoring required under § 141.701(a), unfiltered systems must calculate the arithmetic mean of all *Cryptosporidium* sample concentrations reported under § 141.701(a). Systems must report this value to the State for approval no later than 6 months after the month the system is required to complete initial source water monitoring based on the schedule in § 141.701(c).


(2) Following completion of the second round of source water monitoring required under § 141.701(b), unfiltered systems must calculate the arithmetic mean of all *Cryptosporidium* sample concentrations reported under § 141.701(b). Systems must report this value to the State for approval no later than 6 months after the month the system is required to complete the second round of source water monitoring based on the schedule in § 141.701(c).


(3) If the monthly *Cryptosporidium* sampling frequency varies, systems must first calculate a monthly average for each month of monitoring. Systems must then use these monthly average concentrations, rather than individual sample concentrations, in the calculation of the mean *Cryptosporidium* level in paragraphs (a)(1) or (2) of this section.


(4) The report to the State of the mean *Cryptosporidium* levels calculated under paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section must include a summary of the source water monitoring data used for the calculation.


(5) Failure to comply with the conditions of paragraph (a) of this section is a violation of the treatment technique requirement.


(b) *Cryptosporidium inactivation requirements.* Unfiltered systems must provide the level of inactivation for *Cryptosporidium* specified in this paragraph, based on their mean *Cryptosporidium* levels as determined under paragraph (a) of this section and according to the schedule in § 141.713.


(1) Unfiltered systems with a mean *Cryptosporidium* level of 0.01 oocysts/L or less must provide at least 2-log *Cryptosporidium* inactivation.


(2) Unfiltered systems with a mean *Cryptosporidium* level of greater than 0.01 oocysts/L must provide at least 3-log *Cryptosporidium* inactivation.


(c) *Inactivation treatment technology requirements.* Unfiltered systems must use chlorine dioxide, ozone, or UV as described in § 141.720 to meet the *Cryptosporidium* inactivation requirements of this section.


(1) Systems that use chlorine dioxide or ozone and fail to achieve the *Cryptosporidium* inactivation required in paragraph (b) of this section on more than one day in the calendar month are in violation of the treatment technique requirement.


(2) Systems that use UV light and fail to achieve the *Cryptosporidium* inactivation required in paragraph (b) of this section by meeting the criteria in § 141.720(d)(3)(ii) are in violation of the treatment technique requirement.


(d) *Use of two disinfectants.* Unfiltered systems must meet the combined *Cryptosporidium* inactivation requirements of this section and *Giardia lamblia* and virus inactivation requirements of § 141.72(a) using a minimum of two disinfectants, and each of two disinfectants must separately achieve the total inactivation required for either *Cryptosporidium, Giardia lamblia,* or viruses.




