# § 63.364   Monitoring requirements.

(a) *General requirements.* (1) If you own or operate an affected source subject to an emission standard in § 63.362, you must comply with the monitoring requirements in § 63.8, according to the applicability in table 6 to this subpart, and in this section.


(2) If you own or operate an affected source at a facility where EtO use is less than 100 lb/yr that is subject to an emission standard in § 63.362, you may monitor the parameters specified in paragraphs (b), (c), (d), (e), (g), and (i) of this section. All monitoring equipment shall be installed such that representative measurements of emissions or process parameters from the source are obtained. For monitoring equipment purchased from a vendor, verification of the operational status of the monitoring equipment shall include completion of the manufacturer's written specifications or recommendations for installation, operation, and calibration of the system.


(3) If you own or operate an affected source that is subject to an emission standard in § 63.362 and that is required to monitor using EtO CEMS, you must comply with paragraphs (f), (g), and (i) of this section.


(4) If you comply with the management practice for Group 2 room air emissions at area sources, you must comply with paragraph (h) of this section.


(5) You must keep the written procedures required by § 63.8(d)(2) on record for the life of the affected source or until the affected source is no longer subject to the provisions of this part, to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator. If the performance evaluation plan is revised, you must keep previous (*i.e.,* superseded) versions of the performance evaluation plan on record to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator, for a period of 5 years after each revision to the plan. The program of corrective action should be included in the plan required under § 63.8(d)(2).


(b) *Acid-water scrubbers.* If you are demonstrating continuous compliance through periodic performance testing on an acid-water scrubber(s), you must:


(1) *Ethylene glycol concentration.* Sample the scrubber liquor from the acid-water scrubber(s) and analyze and record at least once per week the ethylene glycol concentration of the scrubber liquor using the test methods and procedures in § 63.365(e)(1). Monitoring is required during a week only if the scrubber unit has been operated. You must maintain the weekly ethylene glycol concentration below the operating limit established during the most recent performance test;


(2) *Scrubber liquor tank level.* Measure and record at least once per day the level of the scrubber liquor in the recirculation tank(s). You must install, maintain, and use a liquid level indicator to measure the scrubber liquor tank level (*i.e.,* a marker on the tank wall, a dipstick, a magnetic indicator, etc.). Monitoring is required during a day only if the scrubber unit has been operated. You must maintain the daily scrubber liquor height in each recirculation tank below the applicable operating limit established during the most recent performance test; or


(3) *pH.* Monitor and record at least every 15 minutes the scrubber liquor pH. Monitoring is required when the scrubber is operating. A data acquisition system for the pH monitor shall compute and record each 3-hour average scrubber liquor pH value, rolled hourly. This must be done by first averaging the scrubber liquor pH readings obtained over a clock hour, *i.e.,* beginning and ending on the hour. All data collected during the operating hour must be used, even if the scrubber unit is not operating for a complete hour. Then, the average of the previous 3 operating hours must be calculated to determine the 3-hour rolling average scrubber liquor pH. You must maintain the 3-hour rolling average scrubber liquor pH below the applicable operating limit established during the most recent performance test. You must ensure the pH monitoring system meets the following requirements:


(i) The pH sensor must be installed in a position that provides a representative measurement of scrubber liquor pH;


(ii) The sample must be properly mixed and representative of the fluid to be measured; and


(iii) A performance evaluation (including a two-point calibration with one of the two buffer solutions having a pH within 1 of the pH of the operating limit) of the pH monitoring system must be conducted in accordance with your monitoring plan at the time of each performance test but no less frequently than quarterly.


(c) *Oxidizers.* If you are demonstrating continuous compliance through periodic performance testing on a catalytic oxidizer or thermal oxidizer, the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section apply:


(1) For thermal oxidizers, you must monitor and record at least every 15 minutes the temperature in or immediately downstream of the firebox using the temperature monitor described in paragraph (c)(4) of this section. Monitoring is required when the thermal oxidizer is operating. A data acquisition system for the temperature monitor shall compute and record each 3-hour average temperature value, rolled hourly. This must be done by first averaging the temperature readings over a clock hour, *i.e.,* beginning and ending on the hour. All data collected during the operating hour must be used, even if the thermal oxidizer is not operating for a complete hour. Then, the average of the previous 3 operating hours must be calculated to determine the 3-hour rolling average temperature in or immediately downstream of the firebox. You must maintain the 3-hour rolling average temperature above the operating limit established during the most recent performance test.


(2) For catalytic oxidizers, you must monitor and record at least every 15 minutes the temperature at the inlet to the catalyst bed using the temperature monitor described in paragraph (c)(4) of this section. Monitoring is required when the catalytic oxidizer is operating. A data acquisition system for the temperature monitor shall compute and record each 3-hour average temperature, rolled hourly. This must be done by first averaging the temperature readings over a clock hour, *i.e.,* beginning and ending on the hour. All data collected during the operating hour must be used, even if the catalytic oxidizer is not operating for a complete hour. Then, the average of the previous 3 operating hours must be calculated to determine the 3-hour rolling average temperature at the inlet to the catalyst bed. You must maintain the 3-hour rolling average temperature above the operating limit established during the most recent performance test.


(3) For catalytic oxidizers, you must monitor and record at least every 15 minutes the temperature increase across the catalyst bed, immediately downstream of the catalytic bed, using the temperature monitor described in paragraph (c)(4) of this section. Monitoring is required when the catalytic oxidizer is operating. A data acquisition system for the temperature monitor shall compute and record each 3-hour average temperature increase, rolled hourly. This must be done by first computing the difference in outlet temperature minus inlet temperature (monitored under paragraph (c)(2)), and second averaging the temperature difference values over a clock hour, *i.e.,* beginning and ending on the hour. All data collected during the operating hour must be used, even if the catalytic oxidizer is not operating for a complete hour. Then, the average of the previous 3 operating hours must be calculated to determine the 3-hour rolling average temperature increase across the catalyst bed. You must maintain the 3-hour average temperature increase above the operating limit established during the most recent performance test.


(4) You must install, calibrate, operate, and maintain a temperature monitor with a minimum accuracy of ±1 percent over the normal range of the temperature measured, expressed in degrees Celsius, or 2.8 degrees Celsius, whichever is greater. You must verify the accuracy of the temperature monitor twice each calendar year at least five months apart with a reference temperature monitor (traceable to National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) standards or an independent temperature measurement device dedicated for this purpose). During accuracy checking, the probe of the reference device shall be at the same location as that of the temperature monitor being tested. As an alternative, the accuracy of the temperature monitor may be verified in a calibrated oven (traceable to NIST standards).


(5) For catalytic oxidizers, if the monitor indicates that the temperature is below the operating limit, within 7 calendar days you must:


(i) Correct the temperature or temperature increase so that it falls within the established operating range; or


(ii) Replace the catalyst bed. Following replacement of the catalyst bed, you must conduct a new performance test within 180 days and re-establish the operating limits.


(d) *Gas-solid reactors.* If you are demonstrating continuous compliance through periodic performance testing on a gas/solid reactor(s), you must:


(1) *Media analysis.* Sample the media from the gas/solid reactor(s) and have the manufacturer analyze at least once per week. Monitoring is required during a week only if the gas/solid reactor unit has been operated; and


(2) *Pressure drop.* Monitor and record at least every 15 minutes the pressure drop. Monitoring is required when the gas/solid reactor is operating. A data acquisition system for the pressure drop monitor shall compute and record each 3-hour average gas/solid reactor pressure drop value, rolled hourly. This must be done by first averaging the gas/solid reactor pressure drop readings obtained over a clock hour, *i.e.,* beginning and ending on the hour. All data collected during the operating hour must be used, even if the gas/solid reactor unit is not operating for a complete hour. Then, the average of the previous 3 operating hours must be calculated to determine the 3-hour rolling average gas/solid reactor pressure drop. You must maintain the 3-hour rolling average gas/solid reactor pressure drop below the applicable operating limit established during the most recent performance test.


(e) *Performance testing, other control technology.* If you are complying with § 63.363(d) or (e) using periodic performance testing and the use of a control device other than acid-water scrubbers, catalytic or thermal oxidizers, or gas/solid reactors, you must monitor the parameters as approved by the Administrator using the methods and procedures in § 63.365(e).


(f) *EtO CEMS configurations.* If you are using EtO CEMS to demonstrate compliance with an emission standard, you must install and operate an EtO CEMS on each outlet for the control system in accordance with the requirements of Appendix A to subpart O of this part. You must also conduct monitoring for each inlet to the control system that is used to demonstrate compliance with the emission reduction standard in accordance with the requirements of appendix A to this subpart, with the exception for SCV emission streams to the control system.


(1) *EtO CEMS inlet configuration.* The following caveats apply:


(i) *SCVs.* If you do not own or operate a single-item sterilizer, to demonstrate compliance with the percent emission reduction standards for emissions streams that are comprised only of SCVs, you may use the following procedures as an alternative to monitoring the inlet emission stream to determine the mass emissions of EtO being emitted via sterilization chamber(s) vents prior to the controls.


(A) Determine the mass (M_SCV,n_) of EtO used for each charge and at each sterilization chamber used during the previous 30 days using the procedures in either paragraph (f)(1)(i)(A)(*1*) or (*2*) of this section.


(*1*) Weigh the EtO gas cylinder(s) used to charge the sterilizer(s) before and after charging. Record these weights to the nearest 45 g (0.1 lb) and calculate the theoretical mass (M_c_) vented to the controls using equation 1 to this paragraph.


(*2*) Install a calibrated rate meter at the sterilizer inlet(s) and continuously measure the flow rate (Q_m_) and duration of each sterilizer charge. Calculate the theoretical mass (M_SCV,n_) vented to the controls using equation 2 to this paragraph.


(B) Determine the adjustment factor (*f*) using equation 8 to this paragraph. Determine the mass of EtO sent to controls from all non-SCV affected sources, *I,* using equation 4 to this paragraph. For facilities where EtO use is less than 4 tpy, if not all Group 2 room air emissions are routed to a control device, do not include Group 2 room air emissions in *I,* and subtract 0.002 from this factor.


(C)(*1*) Determine the mass rate of EtO sent to controls during the previous 30 days using equation 5 to this paragraph.


(*2*) If both this approach is chosen and the SCV is (or SCVs are) combined with another emission stream, then the owner or operator cannot monitor the point after the combination occurs.


(ii) *Room air emissions.* If room air emissions are both subject to an emission standard and split between two or more control systems, then monitoring must be conducted for room air emissions before they are combined with other streams.


(2) *EtO CEMS on exhaust configurations.* Exhaust gases from the emission sources under this subpart exhaust to the atmosphere through a variety of different configurations, including but not limited to individual stacks, a common stack configuration, or a main stack plus a bypass stack. For the CEMS used to provide data under this subpart, the continuous monitoring system installation requirements for these exhaust configurations are as follows:


(i) *Single unit-single stack configurations.* For an emission source that exhausts to the atmosphere through a single, dedicated stack, you shall either install the required CEMS in the stack or at a location in the ductwork downstream of all emissions control devices, where the pollutant and diluents concentrations are representative of the emissions that exit to the atmosphere.


(ii) *Unit utilizing common stack with other emission source(s).* When an emission source utilizes a common stack with one or more other emission sources, but no emission sources not subject to this rule, you shall either:


(A) Install the required CEMS in the duct from each emission source, leading to the common stack; or


(B) Install the required CEMS in the common stack.


(iii) *Unit(s) utilizing common stack with non-commercial sterilization emission source(s).* (A) When one or more emission sources shares a common stack with one or more emission sources not subject to this rule, you shall either:


(*1*) Install the required CEMS in the ducts from each emission source that is subject to this rule, leading to the common stack; or


(*2*) Install the required CEMS described in this section in the common stack and attribute all of the emissions measured at the common stack to the emission source(s).


(B) If you choose the common stack monitoring option:


(*1*) For each hour in which valid data are obtained for all parameters, you must calculate the pollutant emission rate; and


(*2*) You must assign the calculated pollutant emission rate to each of the units subject to the rule that share the common stack.


(iv) *Unit with multiple parallel control devices with multiple stacks.* If the exhaust gases from an emission source, which is configured such that emissions are controlled with multiple parallel control devices or multiple series of control devices are discharged to the atmosphere through more than one stack, you shall install the required CEMS described in each of the multiple stacks. You shall calculate hourly, flow-weighted, average pollutant emission rates for the unit as follows:


(A) Calculate the pollutant emission rate at each stack or duct for each hour in which valid data are obtained for all parameters;


(B) Multiply each calculated hourly pollutant emission rate at each stack or duct by the corresponding hourly gas flow rate at that stack or duct;


(C) Sum the products determined under paragraph (f)(2)(iv)(B) of this section; and


(D) Divide the result obtained in paragraph (f)(2)(I(C) of this section by the total hourly gas flow rate for the unit, summed across all of the stacks or ducts.


(g) *PTE monitoring.* If you are required to operate all or a portion of your sterilization facility under PTE conditions, you must:


(1) *Initial compliance.* Demonstrate initial procedures in § 63.365(g)(1) and continued compliance with the provisions in this section. You must follow the requirements of either paragraphs (g)(2) and (3) of this section or paragraph (g)(4) of this section.


(2) *Continuous compliance.* If you choose to demonstrate continuous compliance through volumetric flow rate monitoring, you must monitor and record at least every 15 minutes the volumetric flow rate from each outlet where air from the PTE is sent using a flow rate monitoring system described in paragraph (g)(3) of this section. Monitoring is required when the portion of the facility covered by PTE is operated. A data acquisition system for the flow rate monitoring system shall compute and record each 3-hour average flow rate value, rolled hourly. This must be done by first averaging the flow rate readings over a clock hour, *i.e.,* beginning and ending on the hour. All data collected during the operating hour must be used, even the portion of the facility covered by PTE is not operated for a complete hour. Then, the average of the previous 3 operating hours must be calculated to determine the 3-hour rolling average flow rate. You must maintain the 3-hour rolling average flow rate above the applicable operating limits established during the most recent compliance demonstration.


(3) *Continuous flow rate monitoring system for PTE.* You must install, operate, calibrate, and maintain instruments, according to the requirements in paragraphs (g)(3)(i) through (ix) of this section, for continuously measuring and recording the stack gas flow rate to allow determination of compliance with the minimum volumetric flow rate through the affected stack operating limit(s).


(i) You must install each sensor of the flow rate monitoring system in a location that provides representative measurement of the exhaust gas flow rate. The flow rate sensor is that portion of the system that senses the volumetric flow rate and generates an output proportional to that flow rate.


(ii) The flow rate monitoring system must be designed to measure the exhaust flow rate over a range that extends from a value of at least 20 percent less than the lowest expected exhaust flow rate to a value of at least 20 percent greater than the highest expected exhaust flow rate.


(iii) The flow rate monitoring system must be equipped with a data acquisition and recording system that is capable of recording values over the entire range specified in paragraph (g)(3)(ii) of this section.


(iv) The signal conditioner, wiring, power supply, and data acquisition and recording system for the flow rate monitoring system must be compatible with the output signal of the flow rate sensors used in the monitoring system.


(v) The flow rate monitoring system must be designed to complete a minimum of one cycle of operation for each successive 15-minute period.


(vi) The flow rate sensor must have provisions to determine the daily zero and upscale calibration drift (CD) (*see* sections 3.1 and 8.3 of Performance Specification 2 in appendix B to Part 60 of this chapter for a discussion of CD).


(A) Conduct the CD tests at two reference signal levels, zero (*e.g.,* 0 to 20 percent of span) and upscale (*e.g.,* 50 to 70 percent of span).


(B) The absolute value of the difference between the flow monitor response and the reference signal must be equal to or less than 3 percent of the flow monitor span.


(vii) You must perform an initial relative accuracy test of the flow rate monitoring system according to section 8.2 of Performance Specification 6 of appendix B to part 60 of the chapter with the exceptions in paragraphs (g)(3)(vii)(A) and (B) of this section.


(A) The relative accuracy test is to evaluate the flow rate monitoring system alone rather than a continuous emission rate monitoring system.


(B) The relative accuracy of the flow rate monitoring system shall be no greater than 10 percent of the mean value of the reference method data.


(viii) You must verify the accuracy of the flow rate monitoring system at least once per year by repeating the relative accuracy test specified in paragraph (g)(3)(vii) of this section.


(ix) You must operate the flow rate monitoring system and record data during all periods of operation of the affected facility including periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction.


(4) *Pressure differential monitor.* You must instead install, operate, calibrate, and maintain a continuous pressure differential monitoring system, as follows, to verify the presence of PTE. You must operate this system whenever the facility is in operation. You must also maintain the pressure differential at or above 0.007 inches of water over a three-hour rolling average.


(i) This monitoring system must measure the pressure differential between the interior and exterior of the PTE, with at least one monitoring device located in each room that borders the PTE. These monitoring devices shall be designed to provide measurements of pressure differential to at least the nearest 0.001 inches of water and having a complete cycle time no greater than 5 minutes.


(ii) A data acquisition system for the monitoring system shall compute and record each 3-hour average pressure differential value, rolled hourly. This must be done by first averaging the pressure differential readings over a clock hour, *i.e.,* beginning and ending on the hour. All data collected during the operating hour must be used, even in portions of the facility covered by PTE that are not operated for a complete hour. Then, the average of the previous 3 operating hours must be calculated to determine the 3-hour rolling average pressure differential. If data are not recorded from an alternative monitoring device, during any malfunction of the principal monitoring device(s) or the automatic recorder, you must manually record the measured data at least hourly.


(h) *Sterilization chamber end-cycle EtO concentration.* As part of your monitoring plan, you must document your approach for determining the EtO sterilization chamber concentration. If you choose a parametric approach you must meet the requirements in paragraph (h)(1) of this section and if you choose a direct measurement approach you must meet the requirements in paragraph (h)(2) of this section. Alternatively, you may petition the administrator for an alternative monitoring approach under § 63.8(f).


(1) If you choose a parametric approach for determining chamber EtO concentrations you must document parameter(s) used in the calculation to determine of EtO concentrations and the calculation(s) used to determine the chamber concentration. Any instrumentation used for parametric monitoring must also be identified in the monitoring plan and at a minimum this plan should include the following for each instrument:


(i) Parameter measured and measurement principle of the monitor.


(ii) Instrument name, model number, serial number, and range.


(iii) Manufacturer recommended operation practices, including daily operational check.


(iv) Procedures for calibration, the frequency of calibration, and accuracy requirements of the calibration.


(v) Description for how the information from the parameter monitor is being collected and stored.


(2) If you choose a direct measurement approach for determining chamber EtO calibrations you must document the procedures used for the operation of the instruments. Any instrument used for direct measurement of EtO must be identified in the monitoring plan and at a minimum this plan must include the following information:


(i) Instrument name, model number, serial number, and range.


(ii) Description of the measurement principle and any potential interferences.


(iii) If applicable, the description of the sampling condition system.


(iv) Procedures for calibration, the frequency of calibration, and accuracy requirements of the calibration.


(v) Description for how the information from the parameter monitor is being collected and stored.


(i) *EtO usage.* If you own or operate a sterilization facility subject to the requirements of this subpart you must monitor and record on a daily basis the daily and 30-operating day EtO usage according to the requirements of this paragraph. Additionally, you must record EtO usage for each calendar month.


(1) Monitor and record on a daily basis, the daily total mass of ethylene oxide, in pounds, used at the facility. The daily total mass must be determined using the methodology specified in § 63.365(c)(1)(i) and (ii).


(2) Determine and record daily the 30-operating day rolling ethylene oxide usage rate using equation 6 to this paragraph.


(3) Determine and record the total mass of EtO used in each calendar month.






