# ยง 1502.7   Fees.

(a) *Authority.* USADF charges for processing FOIA requests in accordance with the Uniform Freedom of Information Act Fee Schedule and Guidelines of the Office of Management and Budget, 52 FR 10012-10020 (March 17, 1987).


(b) *When charged.* Fees shall be charged in accordance with the schedules contained in paragraph (c) of this section for services rendered in responding to requests for Foundation records under this subpart. Requestors may seek a waiver of fees by submitting a written application demonstrating how disclosure of the requested information is in the public interest because it is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of the operations or activities of the government and is not primarily in the commercial interest of the requestor. Fees shall also not be charged where they would amount, in the aggregate, for a request or series of related requests, to $25 or less.


(c) *Services charged for and amount charged.* For the services listed below expended in locating or making available records or copies thereof, the following charges shall be assessed:


(1) *Copies.* For copies, $.10 per copy of each page.


(2) *Clerical searches.* For each one quarter hour spent by clerical personnel in excess of the first quarter hour in searching for and producing requested records, $4.75.


(3) *Non-routine, non-clerical searches.* Where the task of determining which records fall within a request and collecting them requires the time of professional or managerial personnel, and where the time required is substantial, for each one quarter hour spent in excess of the first quarter hour, $10.00. No charge shall be made for the time spent in resolving legal or policy issues affecting access to records of known contents.


(4) *Other charges.* When a response to a request requires services or materials other than those described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section, the direct cost of such services to the Foundation may be charged, providing the requestor has been given an estimate of such cost before it is incurred.




