# § 249.120   Transitions.

(a) *Initial application.* (1) A Board-regulated institution that initially becomes subject to the minimum net stable funding requirement under § 249.1(b)(1)(i) or (ii) after July 1, 2021, must comply with the requirements of subparts K through N of this part beginning on the first day of the third calendar quarter after which the Board-regulated institution becomes subject to this part.


(2) A Board-regulated institution that becomes subject to the minimum net stable funding requirement under § 249.1(b)(1)(iii) must comply with the requirements of subparts K through N of this part subject to a transition period specified by the Board.


(b) *Transition to a different required stable funding adjustment percentage.* (1) A Board-regulated institution whose required stable funding adjustment percentage changes is subject to the transition periods as set forth in § 249.105(c).


(2) A Board-regulated institution that is no longer subject to the minimum stable funding requirement of this part pursuant to § 249.1(b)(1)(i) or (ii) based on the size of total consolidated assets, cross-jurisdictional activity, total nonbank assets, weighted short-term wholesale funding, or off-balance sheet exposure calculated in accordance with the Call Report, or instructions to the FR Y-9LP, the FR Y-15, or equivalent reporting form, as applicable, for each of the four most recent calendar quarters may cease compliance with the requirements of subparts K through N of this part as of the first day of the first calendar quarter after it is no longer subject to § 249.1(b).


(c) *Reservation of authority.* The Board may extend or accelerate any compliance date of this part if the Board determines such extension or acceleration is appropriate. In determining whether an extension or acceleration is appropriate, the Board will consider the effect of the modification on financial stability, the period of time for which the modification would be necessary to facilitate compliance with the requirements of subparts K through N of this part, and the actions the Board-regulated institution is taking to come into compliance with the requirements of subparts K through N of this part.





---

[N] [86 FR 9213, Feb. 11, 2021]






