# § 357.0   Book-entry systems.

(a) *Treasury securities.* Treasury securities are maintained in one of the following book-entry systems:


(1) *Commercial book-entry system.* The commercial book-entry system is the book-entry system in which Treasury securities are held in a tiered system through securities intermediaries such as financial institutions or brokerage firms. A Treasury security is maintained in the commercial book-entry system if it is credited by a Federal Reserve Bank to a Participant's Securities Account. The regulations governing the commercial book-entry system are found at subpart B of this part, and are referred to as Treasury/Reserve Automated Debt Entry System (TRADES).


(2) *Legacy Treasury Direct* ®. The Legacy Treasury Direct system is a non-Internet-based book-entry system maintained by Treasury for purchasing and holding marketable Treasury securities as book-entry products. A Treasury security is maintained in Legacy Treasury Direct if it is credited to a Legacy Treasury Direct account as described in § 357.20 of this part. Treasury securities are held directly by the Department of the Treasury in accounts maintained in the investor's name. A Legacy Treasury Direct account may be accessed through a designated Federal Reserve Bank or the Bureau of the Fiscal Service. See subpart C of this part for rules pertaining to Legacy Treasury Direct.


(3) *TreasuryDirect* ®. TreasuryDirect is a book-entry, online system maintained by the Department of the Treasury for purchasing and holding eligible marketable Treasury securities, United States Savings Bonds, and certificates of indebtedness in electronic form as a computer record on the books of Treasury. The regulations governing TreasuryDirect are found at 31 CFR part 363.


(b) *Transferability between Legacy Treasury Direct and other systems.* A Treasury security maintained in Legacy Treasury Direct may be transferred to an account in TRADES or to an account in TreasuryDirect in accordance with § 357.22(a). Securities may not be transferred to Legacy Treasury Direct from other systems.



---

[N] [67 FR 64278, Oct. 17, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 57431, Sept. 30, 2005; 70 FR 57441, Sept. 30, 2005; 76 FR 18063, Apr. 1, 2011]




