# ยง 683.510   What is a Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act Pay-for-Performance contract?

(a) *Pay-for-Performance contract.* A WIOA Pay-for-Performance contract is a type of Performance-Based contract.


(b) *Applicability.* WIOA Pay-for-Performance contracts may only be entered into when they are a part of a WIOA Pay-for-Performance contract strategy described in ยง 683.500.


(c) *Cost-plus a percentage of cost contracts.* Use of cost plus a percentage of cost contracts is prohibited. (2 CFR 200.323.)


(d) *Services provided.* WIOA Pay-for-Performance contracts must be used to provide adult training services described in sec. 134(c)(3) of WIOA or youth activities described in sec. 129(c)(2) of WIOA.


(e) *Structure of payment.* WIOA Pay-for-Performance contracts must specify a fixed amount that will be paid to the service provider based on the achievement of specified levels of performance on the performance outcomes in sec. 116(b)(2)(A) of WIOA for target populations within a defined timetable. Outcomes must be independently validated, as described in paragraph (j) of this section and ยง 683.500, prior to disbursement of funds.


(f) *Eligible service providers.* WIOA Pay-for-Performance contracts may be entered into with eligible service providers, which may include local or national community-based organizations or intermediaries, community colleges, or other training providers that are eligible under sec. 122 or 123 of WIOA (as appropriate).


(g) *Target populations.* WIOA Pay-for-Performance contracts must identify target populations as specified by the Local WDB, which may include individuals with barriers to employment.


(h) *Bonus payments.* WIOA Pay-for-Performance contracts may include bonus payments for the contractor based on achievement of specified levels of performance. Bonus payments for achieving outcomes above and beyond those specified in the contract must be used by the service provider to expand capacity to provide effective training.


(i) *Performance reporting.* Performance outcomes achieved under the WIOA Pay-for-Performance contract, measured against the levels of performance specified in the contract, must be tracked by the local area and reported to the State pursuant to WIOA sec. 116(d)(2)(K) and ยง 677.160 of this chapter.


(j) *Validation.* WIOA Pay-for-Performance contracts must include independent validation of the contractor's achievement of the performance benchmarks specified in the contract. This validation must be based on high-quality, reliable, and verified data.


(k) *Guidance.* The Secretary may issue additional guidance related to use of WIOA Pay-for-Performance contracts.




