# § 501.740   Decision of Administrative Law Judge.

The Administrative Law Judge shall prepare a decision that constitutes his or her final disposition of the proceedings.


(a) *Content.* (1) The Administrative Law Judge shall determine whether or not the respondent has violated any provision of parts 500 and 515 of this chapter or the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, direction or instruction issued by or under the authority of the Secretary pursuant to part 500 or 515 of this chapter or otherwise under the Trading with the Enemy Act.


(2) The Administrative Law Judge's decision shall include findings and conclusions, and the reasons or basis therefor, as to all the material issues of fact, law or discretion presented on the record.


(3) (i) Upon a finding of violation, the Administrative Law Judge shall award an appropriate monetary civil penalty in an amount consistent with the Penalty Guidelines published by the Director.


(ii) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section, the Administrative Law Judge:


(A) Shall provide an opportunity for a respondent to assert his or her inability to pay a penalty, or financial hardship, by filing with the Administrative Law Judge a financial disclosure statement subject to 18 U.S.C. 1001 that sets forth in detail the basis for the financial hardship or the inability to pay; and


(B) Shall consider any such filing in determining the appropriate monetary civil penalty.


(b) *Administrative Law Judge's decision*—(1) *Service.* The Administrative Law Judge shall serve his or her decision on the respondent and on the Director through the Office of Chief Counsel, and shall file a copy of the decision with the Secretary's designee.


(2) *Filing of report with the Secretary's designee.* If the respondent or Director files a petition for review pursuant to § 501.741, or upon a request from the Secretary's designee, the Administrative Law Judge shall file his or her report with the Secretary's designee not later than 20 days after service of his or her decision on the parties. The report shall consist of the record, including the Administrative Law Judge's decision, and any petition from the respondent or the Director seeking review.


(3) *Correction of errors.* Until the Administrative Law Judge's report has been directed for review by the Secretary's designee or, in the absence of a direction for review, until the decision has become a final order, the Administrative Law Judge may correct clerical errors and errors arising through oversight or inadvertence in decisions, orders, or other parts of the record.


(c) *Administrative Law Judge's decision final unless review directed.* Unless the Secretary's designee determines to review a decision in accordance with § 501.741(a)(1), the decision of the Administrative Law Judge shall become the final decision of the Department. 


(d) *Penalty awarded.* The Director is charged with implementing all final decisions of the Department and, upon a finding of violation and/or award of a civil monetary penalty, shall carry out the necessary steps to close the action.




