# § 63.405   Notification requirements.

(a) *Initial notification.* (1) In accordance with § 63.9(b) of subpart A, owners or operators of all affected IPCT's that have an initial startup before September 8, 1994, shall notify the Administrator in writing. The notification, which shall be submitted not later than 12 months after September 8, 1994, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later, shall provide the following information:


(i) The name and address of the IPCT owner or operator;


(ii) The address (i.e., physical location) of the affected IPCT;


(iii) A statement that the notification is being submitted as required by this subpart; and


(iv) A description of the type of water treatment program used in the affected IPCT, including the chemical name of each corrosion inhibitor ingredient used; the average concentration of those corrosion inhibitor ingredients maintained in the cooling water; and the material safety data sheet for each water treatment chemical or chemical compound used in the IPCT.


(2) In accordance with § 63.9(b) of subpart A, owners or operators of all affected IPCT's that have an initial startup on or after September 8, 1994, shall notify the Administrator in writing that the source is subject to the relevant standard no later than 12 months after initial startup or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later. The notification shall provide all the information required in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(b) *Notification of compliance status.* (1) In accordance with § 63.9(h) of subpart A, owners or operators of affected IPCT's shall submit to the Administrator a notification of compliance status within 60 days of the date on which the IPCT is brought into compliance with § 63.402 of this subpart and not later than 18 months after September 8, 1994, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later. 




(2) The notification of compliance status must:


(i) Be signed by a responsible official who also certifies the accuracy of the report;


(ii) Certify that source has complied with § 63.402 of this subpart; and


(iii) Include the information required in paragraph (a)(1)(iv) of this section.


(iv) Include the following statement:



---

[N] [59 FR 46350, Sept. 8, 1994, as amended at 85 FR 73889, Nov. 19, 2020]




