# § 170.7   DCMA DIBCAC.

(a) DCMA DIBCAC assessors in support of the CMMC Program will:


(1) Complete CMMC Level 2 and Level 3 training.


(2) Conduct Level 3 certification assessments and upload assessment results into the CMMC instantiation of eMASS, or its successor capability.


(3) Issue Certificates of CMMC Status resulting from Level 3 certification assessments.


(4) Conduct Level 2 certification assessments of the Accreditation Body and prospective C3PAOs' information systems that process, store, and/or transmit CUI.


(5) Create and maintain a process for assessors to collect the list of assessment artifacts to include artifact names, their return value of the hashing algorithm, the hashing algorithm used, and upload that data into the CMMC instantiation of eMASS.


(6) As authorized and in accordance with all legal requirements, enter and track, OSC appeals and updated results arising from Level 3 certification assessment activities into the CMMC instantiation of eMASS.


(7) Retain all records in accordance with DCMA-MAN 4501-04.


(8) Conduct an assessment of the OSA, when requested by the CMMC PMO per §§ 170.6(e) and (f), as provided for under the 48 CFR 252.204-7019 and 48 CFR 252.204-7020.


(9) Identify assessments that meet the criteria in § 170.20 and verify that SPRS accurately reflects the CMMC Status.


(b) An OSC, the CMMC AB, or a C3PAO may appeal the outcome of its DCMA DIBCAC conducted assessment within 21 days by submitting a written basis for appeal with the requirements in question for DCMA DIBCAC consideration. Appeals may be submitted for review by visiting *www.dcma.mil/DIBCAC* for contact information, and a DCMA DIBCAC Quality Assurance Review Team will provide a written response or request additional supporting documentation.






