# § 622.102   Recordkeeping and reporting.

(a) Participants in Gulf aquaculture activities addressed in this subpart must keep records and report as specified in this section. Unless otherwise specified, required reporting must be accomplished electronically via the Web site. See § 622.100(a)(3) regarding provisions for paper-based reporting in lieu of electronic reporting during catastrophic conditions as determined by the RA. Recordkeeping (*i.e.,* maintaining records versus submitting reports) may, to the extent feasible, be maintained electronically; however, paper-based recordkeeping also is acceptable.


(1) *Aquaculture facility owners or operators.* An aquaculture facility owner or operator must comply with the following requirements:


(i) *Reporting requirements*—(A) *Transport of fingerlings/juvenile fish to an aquaculture facility.* Report the time, date, species and number of cultured fingerlings or other juvenile animals that will be transported from a hatchery to an aquaculture facility at least 72 hours prior to transport. This information may be submitted electronically via the Web site or via phone. In addition, permittees are to maintain and make available to NMFS or an authorized officer upon request a written or electronic daily record of the number of cultured animals introduced into and the total pounds and average weight of fish removed from each approved aquaculture system, including mortalities, for the most recent 3 years.


(B) *Major escapement.* Report any major escapement or suspected major escapement within 24 hours of the event. Major escapement is defined as the escape, within a 24-hour period, of 10 percent of the fish from a single approved aquaculture system (*e.g.,* one cage or one net pen) or 5 percent or more of the fish from all approved aquaculture systems combined, or the escape, within any 30-day period, of 10 percent or more of the fish from all approved aquaculture systems combined. The report must include the items in paragraphs (a)(1)(i)(B)(*1*) through (*6*) of this section and may be submitted electronically via the Web site. If no major escapement occurs during a given year, an annual report must be submitted via the Web site on or before January 31 each year indicating no major escapement occurred.


(*1*) Gulf aquaculture permit number;


(*2*) Name and phone number of a contact person;


(*3*) Duration and specific location of escapement, including the number of cages or net pens involved;


(*4*) Cause(s) of escapement;


(*5*) Number, size, and percent of fish, by species, that escaped; and


(*6*) Actions being taken to address the escapement.


(C) *Pathogens.* Report, within 24 hours of diagnosis, all findings or suspected findings of any OIE-reportable pathogen episodes or pathogens that are identified as reportable pathogens in the NAAHP, as implemented by the USDA and U.S. Departments of Commerce and Interior, that are known to infect the cultured species. The report must include the items in paragraphs (a)(1)(i)(C)(*1*) through (*6*) of this section and may be submitted electronically via the Web site. If no finding or suspected finding of an OIE-reportable pathogen episode occurs during a given year, an annual report must be submitted via the Web site on or before January 31 each year indicating no finding or suspected finding of an OIE-reportable pathogen episode occurred. See § 622.108(a)(1) regarding actions NMFS may take to address a pathogen episode.


(*1*) OIE-reportable pathogen;


(*2*) Percent of cultured animals infected;


(*3*) Findings of the aquatic animal health expert;


(*4*) Plans for submission of specimens for confirmatory testing (as required by the USDA);


(*5*) Testing results (when available); and


(*6*) Actions being taken to address the reportable pathogen episode.


(D) *Harvest notification.* Report the time, date, and weight of fish to be harvested from an aquaculture facility at least 72 hours prior to harvest. This information may be submitted electronically via the Web site or via phone.


(E) *Landing information.* Report the intended time, date, and port of landing for any vessel landing fish harvested from an aquaculture facility at least 72 hours prior to landing. This information may be submitted electronically via the Web site or via phone. The person landing the cultured animals must validate the dealer transaction report required in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section by entering the unique PIN number of the Gulf aquaculture permit holder from whom the fish were received when the transaction report is submitted.


(F) *Change of hatchery.* Report any change in hatcheries used for obtaining fingerlings or other juvenile animals and provide updated names and addresses or specific locations (if no address is available) for the applicable hatcheries no later than 30 days after any such change occurs. This information may be submitted electronically via the Web site.


(G) *Entanglements or interactions with marine mammals, endangered species, or migratory birds.* Report any entanglement or interaction with marine mammals, endangered species, or migratory birds within 24 hours of the event. The report must include the items included in paragraphs (a)(1)(i)(G)(*1*) through (*5*) of this section and may be submitted electronically via the Web site. If no entanglement or interaction with marine mammals, endangered species, or migratory birds occurs during a given year, an annual report must be submitted via the Web site on or before January 31 each year indicating no entanglement or interaction occurred.


(*1*) Date, time, and location of entanglement or interaction.


(*2*) Species entangled or involved in interactions and number of individuals affected;


(*3*) Number of mortalities and acute injuries observed;


(*4*) Cause of entanglement or interaction; and


(*5*) Actions being taken to prevent future entanglements or interactions.


(H) *Feed invoices.* The permittee must keep the original purchase invoices for feed or copies of purchase invoices for feed, make them available to NMFS or an authorized officer upon request, and be maintained for a period of 3 years.


(I) Any other reporting requirements specified by the RA for evaluating and assessing the environmental impacts of an aquaculture operation.


(ii) *Other reporting requirements.* In addition to the reporting requirements in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, an aquaculture facility owner or operator must comply with the following reporting requirements:


(A) Provide NMFS with current copies of all valid state and Federal permits (*e.g.,* ACOE Section 10 permit, EPA NPDES permit) required for conducting offshore aquaculture and report any changes applicable to those permits.


(B) Provide NMFS with current copies of all valid state and Federal aquaculture permits for each hatchery from which fingerlings or other juvenile animals are obtained and report any changes applicable to those permits within 30 days.


(iii) *Recordkeeping requirements.* An aquaculture facility owner or operator must comply with the following recordkeeping requirements:


(A) Maintain for the most recent 3 years and make available to NMFS or an authorized officer, upon request, monitoring reports related to aquaculture activities required by all other state and Federal permits (*e.g.,* EPA NPDES permit) required for conducting offshore aquaculture.


(B) Maintain records of all sales of fish for the most recent 3 years and make that information available to NMFS or an authorized officer upon request. Sale records must include the species and quantity of fish sold in pounds round weight; estimated average weight of fish sold to the nearest tenth of a pound by species; date sold; and the name of the entity to whom fish were sold.


(2) *Aquaculture dealer recordkeeping and reporting requirements.* A dealer who purchases fish from an aquaculture facility in the Gulf EEZ must:


(i) Complete a landing transaction report for each landing and sale of cultured animals via the Web site at the time of the transaction in accordance with reporting form and instructions provided on the Web site. This report includes date, time, and location of transaction; information necessary to identify the Gulf aquaculture permit holder, vessel, and dealer involved in the transaction; quantity, in pounds round weight, and estimated average weight of each species landed to the nearest tenth of a pound; and average price paid for cultured animals landed and sold by market category. A dealer must maintain such record for at least 3 years after the receipt date and must make such record available for inspection upon request to NMFS or an authorized officer.


(ii) After the dealer submits the report and the information has been verified, the Web site will send a transaction approval code to the dealer and the aquaculture permit holder.


(b) [Reserved]




