# 249.7003   Notification of anticipated contract terminations or reductions.

(a) Section 1372 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1994 (Pub. L. 103-160) and section 824 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1997 (Pub. L. 104-201) are intended to help establish benefit eligibility under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. Chapter 32) for employees of DoD contractors and subcontractors adversely affected by termination or substantial reductions in major defense programs.


(b) Departments and agencies are responsible for establishing procedures to—


(1) Identify which contracts (if any) under major defense programs will be terminated or substantially reduced as a result of the funding levels provided in an appropriations act; and


(2) Within 60 days of the enactment of such an act, provide notice of the anticipated termination of or substantial reduction in the funding of affected contracts—


(i) Directly to the Secretary of Labor; and


(ii) Through the contracting officer to each prime contractor.


(c) When subcontracts have been issued, the prime contractor is responsible for—


(1) Providing notice of the termination or substantial reduction in funding to all first-tier subcontractors with a subcontract valued equal to or greater than $700,000; and


(2) Requiring that each subcontractor—


(i) Provide such notice to each of its subcontractors for subcontracts valued greater than $150,000; and


(ii) Impose a similar notice and flowdown requirement in subcontracts valued greater than $150,000 at all tiers.



---

[N] [61 FR 64637, Dec. 6, 1996; 61 FR 66077, Dec. 16, 1996; 62 FR 49304, Sept. 19, 1997; 85 FR 34535, June 5, 2020]




