# § 98.348   Definitions.

Except as specified in this section, all terms used in this subpart have the same meaning given in the Clean Air Act and subpart A of this part.


*Construction and demolition (C&D) waste landfill* means a solid waste disposal facility subject to the requirements of part 257, subparts A or B of this chapter that receives construction and demolition waste and does not receive hazardous waste (defined in § 261.3 of this chapter) or industrial solid waste (defined in § 258.2 of this chapter) or municipal solid waste (as defined in § 98.6) other than residential lead-based paint waste. A C&D waste landfill typically receives any one or more of the following types of solid wastes: Roadwork material, excavated material, demolition waste, construction/renovation waste, and site clearance waste.


*Destruction device* means a flare, thermal oxidizer, boiler, turbine, internal combustion engine, or any other combustion unit used to destroy or oxidize methane contained in landfill gas.


*Final cover* means materials used at a landfill to meet final closure regulations of the competent federal, state, or local authority.


*Industrial waste landfill* means any landfill other than a municipal solid waste landfill, a RCRA Subtitle C hazardous waste landfill, or a TSCA hazardous waste landfill, in which industrial solid waste, such a RCRA Subtitle D wastes (nonhazardous industrial solid waste, defined in § 257.2 of this chapter), commercial solid wastes, or conditionally exempt small quantity generator wastes, is placed. An industrial waste landfill includes all disposal areas at the facility.


*Intermediate or interim cover* means the placement of material over waste in a landfill for a period of time prior to the disposal of additional waste and/or final closure as defined by state regulation, permit, guidance or written plan, or state accepted best management practice.


*Landfill capacity* means the maximum amount of solid waste a landfill can accept. For the purposes of this subpart, for landfills that have a permit, the *landfill capacity* can be determined in terms of volume or mass in the most recent permit issued by the state, local, or Tribal agency responsible for regulating the landfill, plus any in-place waste not accounted for in the most recent permit. If the owner or operator chooses to convert from volume to mass to determine its capacity, the calculation must include a site-specific density.


*Leachate recirculation* means the practice of taking the leachate collected from the landfill and reapplying it to the landfill by any of one of a variety of methods, including pre-wetting of the waste, direct discharge into the working face, spraying, infiltration ponds, vertical injection wells, horizontal gravity distribution systems, and pressure distribution systems.


*Passive vent* means a pipe or a system of pipes that allows landfill gas to flow naturally, without the use of a fan or similar mechanical draft equipment, to the surface of the landfill where an opening or pipe (vent) allows for the free flow of landfill gas to the atmosphere or to a passive vent flare without diffusion through the top layer of surface soil.


*Solid waste* has the meaning established by the Administrator pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C.A. 6901 *et seq.*).


*Working capacity* means the maximum volume or mass of waste that is actually placed in the landfill from an individual or representative type of container (such as a tank, truck, or roll-off bin) used to convey wastes to the landfill, taking into account that the container may not be able to be 100 percent filled and/or 100 percent emptied for each load.



---

[N] [75 FR 66473, Oct. 28, 2010, as amended at 78 FR 71970, Nov. 29, 2013; 81 FR 89266, Dec. 9, 2016]







