# § 317.801   Retention of SES provisions.

(a) *Coverage.* This subpart applies to—


(1) A career appointee in the SES appointed at any time by the President to a civilian position in the executive branch with the advice and consent of the Senate at a rate of basic pay which is equal to or greater than the rate payable for Executive Level V; or 


(2) A career appointee in the SES who is not covered under paragraph (a)(1) of this section and who was appointed on or after November 1, 1986, to a civilian position in the executive branch which is covered by the Executive Schedule, or the rate of basic pay for which is fixed by statute at a rate equal to one of the levels of the Executive Schedule.


(b) *Election.* (1) At the time of appointment, an appointee covered by paragraph (a) of this section may elect to retain some, all, or none of the following SES provisions related to basic pay (including the aggregate limitation on pay established by 5 U.S.C. 5307), performance awards, awarding of ranks, severance pay, leave, and retirement. That election will remain in effect for no less than 1 year, unless the appointee leaves the position sooner.


(2) The appointing agency is responsible for advising the appointee of the election opportunity. The election decision must be in writing.


(c) *Change in election.* Except as provided by paragraph (b) of this section, a career appointee is permitted to make an election for purposes of adding or dropping coverage no more than once during any twelve-month period.



---

[N] [50 FR 6154, Feb. 14, 1985, as amended at 56 FR 15273, Apr. 16, 1991; 57 FR 54677, Nov. 20, 1992; 60 FR 6386, Feb. 2, 1995; 69 FR 2050, Jan. 13, 2004; 72 FR 12035, Mar. 15, 2007]




