# § 272.24   Subsidy repair summaries.

(a) *Filing requirements.* The Operator of an Eligible Vessel shall submit to the appropriate MARAD regional Ship Operations Office a Subsidy Repair Summary (Form MA-140) for each quarter of a calendar year in which one or more of the Operator's Eligible Vessels (including any vessel which has been temporarily withdrawn from subsidized service) terminates a voyage. This quarterly report shall include supporting documents and information, as described in paragraph (c) of this section. This summary may be for either a single voyage or multiple voyages, and shall be filed not later than 120 days after:


(1) The close of the calendar quarter in which a voyage is terminated, or


(2) The date the reported vessel is temporarily or permanently withdrawn from subsidized service.


(b) *Form requirements.* MARAD will make available one copy of Form MA-140 upon request. Each Operator shall furnish its own supply of the form and prepare each form for submission. Information on any Form MA-140 shall pertain to only one vessel. The Operator's superintendent engineer or other responsible official shall certify every summary submitted by an Operator in the following manner:


(c) *Categorization.* The Operator shall exercise due diligence in identifying each item in the Form MA-140 within the following three separate categories:


(1) *Claimed for subsidy.* This includes the following:


(i) M&R


(ii) Spare Parts


(iii) Improvements


(2) *Marine loss.* If any M&R expense is incurred because of marine loss, the Operator shall list such an M&R expense under this separate category, and shall exclude such expense from the totals for the “Claimed for Subsidy” and “Non-Subsidized Items” categories provided for in this section.


(3) *Non-subsidized items.* This category shall include builders' guarantee items, foreign repairs, and other items of M&R expense not claimed for subsidy.


(d) *Required supporting documents and information*—(1) *General.* The Operator shall support every item in the Form MA-140 with documents or other information, in sufficient detail to permit MARAD to determine the fairness and reasonableness of the prices for the submitted work. With respect to any claims for M&R performed outside the United States, the Operator shall submit with the claim a certificate, signed either by the Operator (if it uses its own shore gang labor or materials from its own inventory) or by an official of the ship repair yard or the independent contractor performing the work, stating that the M&R were performed with materials, labor, or both, of Domestic Origin.


(2) *U.S. Independent contractors.* If a U.S. independent contractor performed M&R work, the Operator shall support each such expense with one copy of the contractor's invoices covering the work performed. If an invoice is not itemized and fully descriptive of the work performed with item prices then the Operator shall attach to the contractor's invoice other supporting documentation, such as specifications, prepared in sufficient detail to permit a determination of the fairness and reasonableness of the prices for each segment of the work performed.


(3) *Operator's shore gang.* If an Operator's own U.S. shore gang has performed any M&R work, the Operator shall submit with the Form MA-140 specifications covering that work, prepared in sufficient detail (including the material and labor cost of each item) to permit a determination of the specific cost of each segment of work performed.


(4) *Operator furnished material.* Whenever an Operator furnishes to a contractor material obtained either from the Operator's own ship stores or shoreside inventory, or by direct purchase for a specific job, the Operator shall include on the invoice, requisition form or other form of transfer memorandum the item number for which the material was used and the contract number covering the work performed.


(5) *Spare parts.* The Operator shall ensure that the invoice covering any Spare Part for an Eligible Vessel which is to be used or installed as an integral, permanent part of the vessel, indicates the specific piece or part of the vessel's hull, machinery, or Equipment for which the Spare Part was obtained.


(6) *Foreign repairs.* Operators receiving M&R subsidy shall submit copies of all U.S. Customs entry forms detailing foreign expenditures on behalf of Eligible Vessels. The copies shall include all expenditures made during the quarter.


