# ยง 4290.600   General requirement for RBIC to maintain and preserve records.

(a) Maintaining your accounting records. You must establish and maintain your accounting records using SBA's standard chart of accounts for SBICs, unless the Agency approves otherwise. You may obtain this chart of accounts from SBA or at *http://www.sba.gov/sites/default/files/files/inv_charts_ of_accounts.pdf.*

(b) *Location of records.* You must keep the following records at your principal place of business or, in the case of paragraph (b)(3) of this section, at the branch office that is primarily responsible for the transaction:


(1) All your accounting and other financial records;


(2) All minutes of meetings of directors, stockholders, executive committees, partners, members, or other officials; and


(3) All documents and supporting materials related to your business transactions, except for any items held by a custodian under a written agreement between you and a Portfolio Concern or lender, or any securities held in a safe deposit box, or by a licensed securities broker in an amount not exceeding the broker's per-account insurance coverage.


(c) *Preservation of records.* You must retain all the records that are the basis for your financial reports. Such records must be preserved for the periods specified in this paragraph (c) and must remain readily accessible for the first two years of the preservation period.


(1) You must preserve for at least 15 years or, in the case of a Partnership RBIC or LLC RBIC, at least two years beyond the date of liquidation:


(i) All your accounting ledgers and journals, and any other records of assets, asset valuations, liabilities, equity, income, and expenses;


(ii) Your Articles, bylaws, minute books, and RBIC application; and


(iii) All documents evidencing ownership of the RBIC including ownership ledgers and ownership transfer registers.


(2) You must preserve for at least six years all supporting documentation (such as vouchers, bank statements, or canceled checks) for the records listed in paragraph (b)(l) of this section.


(3) After final disposition of any item in your Portfolio, you must preserve for at least six years:


(i) Financing applications and Financing instruments;


(ii) All loan, participation, and escrow agreements;


(iii) All certifications listed in ยง 4290.610 of this part;


(iv) Any capital stock certificates and warrants of the Portfolio Concern that you did not surrender or exercise; and


(v) All other documents and supporting material relating to the Portfolio Concern, including correspondence.


(4) You may substitute a microfilm or computer-scanned or generated copy for the original of any record covered by this paragraph (c).


(d) *Additional requirement.* You must comply with the recordkeeping and record retention requirements set forth in 2 CFR part 200, as adopted by USDA in 2 CFR part 400.



---

[N] [69 FR 32204, June 8, 2004, as amended at 76 FR 80223, Dec. 23, 2011; 79 FR 76018, Dec. 19, 2014]




