# § 209.3   Definitions.

For purposes of this part—


(a) *Administrator* means the Administrator of the Department of Energy. 


(b) *Information and allocation provisions of the International Energy Program* means the provisions of chapter V of the Program relating to the Information System, and the provisions at chapters III and IV thereof relating to the international allocation of petroleum. 


(c) *International Energy Agency* (IEA) means the International Energy Agency established by Decision of the Council of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, dated November 15, 1974. 


(d) *International Energy Program* (IEP) means the program established pursuant to the Agreement on an International Energy Program signed at Paris on November 18, 1974, including (1) the Annex entitled “Emergency Reserves”, (2) any amendment to such Agreement which includes another nation as a Party to such Agreement, and (3) any technical or clerical amendment to such Agreement. 


(e) *International energy supply emergency* means any period (1) beginning on any date which the President determines allocation of petroleum products to nations participating in the international energy program is required by chapters III and IV of such program, and (2) ending on a date on which he determines such allocation is no longer required. Such a period shall not exceed 90 days, except where the President establishes one or more additional periods by making the determination under paragraph (e)(1) of this section. 


(f) *Potential participant* means any person engaged in the business of producing, transporting, refining, distributing, or storing petroleum products; “participant” means any such person who agrees to participate in a voluntary agreement pursuant to a request to do so by the Administrator. 


(g) *Petroleum* or *petroleum products* means crude oil, residual fuel oil, or any refined petroleum product (including any natural gas liquid and any natural gas liquid product). 




