# 216.505   Ordering.

(a) *General.*

(6) Orders placed under indefinite-delivery contracts may be issued on DD Form 1155, Order for Supplies or Services.


(S-70) Departments and agencies shall comply with the review, approval, and reporting requirements established in accordance with subpart 217.7 when placing orders under non-DoD contracts in amounts exceeding the simplified acquisition threshold.


(S-71) See 204.7603 for procedures on the required use of the Supplier Performance Risk System (SPRS) risk assessments.


(i) The contracting officer shall ensure SPRS assessments of price risk and supplier risk are considered as a part of the award decision.


(ii) When placing an order for an end product identified by a material identifier that is available as described at PGI 204.7603, and item risk was not previously considered during award of the contract, the contracting officer shall also consider SPRS assessments of item risk in the award decision.


(iii) Use the provision at 252.204-7024, Notice on the Use of the Supplier Performance Risk System, as prescribed in 204.7604 to the extent permitted by the contract.




(b) *Orders under multiple-award contracts.*

(1) *Fair opportunity.*

(A) See 215.101-2-70 for the limitations and prohibitions on the use of the lowest price technically acceptable source selection process, which are applicable to orders placed against multiple award indefinite delivery contracts.


(B) See 217.7801 for the prohibition on the use of reverse auctions for personal protective equipment and aviation critical safety items.


(b)(2) *Exceptions to the fair opportunity process.* For an order exceeding the simplified acquisition threshold, that is a follow-on to an order previously issued for the same supply or service based on a justification for an exception to fair opportunity citing the authority at FAR 16.505(b)(2)(i)(B) or (C), follow the procedures at PGI 216.505(b)(2).


(6) *Postaward notices and debriefing of awardees for orders exceeding $6 million.* In addition to the notice required at FAR 16.505(b)(6), a written or oral postaward debriefing of successful and unsuccessful awardees is required for task orders and delivery orders valued at $10 million or more (section 818 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (Pub. L. 115-91)).


(ii) Follow the procedures at 215.506 and 215.506-70 when providing the postaward debriefing to successful and unsuccessful awardees for task orders or delivery orders valued at $10 million or more.



---

[N] [63 FR 11529, Mar. 9, 1998, as amended at 70 FR 29642, May 24, 2005; 71 FR 14103, Mar. 21, 2006; 80 FR 21657, Apr. 20, 2015; 80 FR 67255, Oct. 30, 2015; 84 FR 50789, Sept. 26, 2019; 87 FR 15810, Mar. 18, 2022; 88 FR 17339, Mar. 22, 2023]




