# ยง 165.1412   Security Zone; escorted U.S. Navy submarines in Sector Honolulu Captain of the Port Zone.

(a) *Location.* The following area is a security zone: all waters, from the surface to the ocean floor, within 1,000 yards of any U.S. Navy submarine that is 


(1) Operating in the Sector Honolulu Captain of the Port Zone, as defined in 33 CFR 3.70-10, and that 


(2) Is being escorted by the U.S. Coast Guard.


(b) *Regulations.* In accordance with the general regulations in 33 CFR 165, Subpart D, no person or vessel may enter or remain in the security zone created by paragraph (a) of this section unless authorized by the Coast Guard patrol commander. The Coast Guard patrol commander may be contacted via VHF Channel 16 or other means reasonably available. 33 CFR part 165.30 and 165.33 contain additional provisions applicable to the security zone created in paragraph (a) of this section.


(c) *Effective period.* This rule is effective from 6:00 a.m. on June 12, 2010 Hawaiian Standard Time (HST).


(d) *Notification.* The Coast Guard security escort will attempt, when necessary and practicable, to notify any persons or vessels inside or in the vicinity of the security one created in paragraph (a) of this section of the zone's existence via VHF Channel 16 or other means reasonably available.


(e) *Penalties.* Vessels or persons violating this rule are subject to the penalties set forth in 46 U.S.C. 70036 and 46 U.S.C. 70052.



---

[N] [USCG-2010-0409, 75 FR 33704, June 15, 2010, as amended by USCG-2018-1049, 84 FR 7813, Mar. 5, 2019]




