# § 874.13   Reclamation objectives and priorities.

(a) When you conduct reclamation projects under this part you may follow OSM's “Final Guidelines for Reclamation Programs and Projects” (66 FR 31250, June 11, 2001) and the expenditures must reflect the following priorities in the order stated:


(1) *Priority 1:* The protection of public health, safety, and property from extreme danger of adverse effects of coal mining practices, including the restoration of land and water resources and the environment that:


(i) Have been degraded by the adverse effects of coal mining practices; and


(ii) Are adjacent to a site that has been or will be addressed to protect the public health, safety, and property from extreme danger of adverse effects of coal mining practices.


(2) *Priority 2:* The protection of public health and safety from adverse effects of coal mining practices, including the restoration of land and water resources and the environment that:


(i) Have been degraded by the adverse effects of coal mining practices; and


(ii) Are adjacent to a site that has been or will be addressed to protect the public health and safety from adverse effects of coal mining practices.


(3) *Priority 3:* The restoration of land and water resources and the environment previously degraded by adverse effects of coal mining practices, including measures for the conservation and development of soil, water (excluding channelization), woodland, fish and wildlife, recreation resources, and agricultural productivity. Priority 3 land and water resources that are geographically contiguous with existing or remediated Priority 1 or 2 problems will be considered adjacent under paragraphs (a)(1)(ii) or (a)(2)(ii) of this section.


(b) This paragraph applies to State or Tribal share funds available under §§ 872.14 and 872.17 of this chapter and historic coal funds available under § 872.21 of this chapter. You may expend these funds to reclaim Priority 3 lands and waters, if either of the following conditions applies:


(1) You have completed all of the Priority 1 and Priority 2 reclamation in the jurisdiction of your State or Indian tribe; or


(2) The expenditure for Priority 3 reclamation is made in conjunction with the expenditure of funds for Priority 1 or Priority 2 reclamation projects including past, current, and future Priority 1 or Priority 2 reclamation projects. Expenditures under this paragraph must either:


(i) Facilitate the Priority 1 or Priority 2 reclamation; or


(ii) Provide reasonable savings towards the objective of reclaiming all Priority 3 land and water problems within the jurisdiction of your State or Indian tribe.



---

[N] [73 FR 67639, Nov. 14, 2008]




