# ยง 160.3   Definitions.

For purposes of this part and any determination under 12 U.S.C. 1467a(m):


*Consumer loans* include loans for personal, family, or household purposes and loans reasonably incident thereto, and may be made as either open-end or closed-end consumer credit (as defined at 12 CFR 226.2(a)(10) and (20)). Consumer loans do not include credit extended in connection with credit card loans, bona fide overdraft loans, and other loans that the savings association has designated as made under investment or lending authority other than section 5(c)(2)(D) of the HOLA.


*Credit card* is any card, plate, coupon book, or other single credit device that may be used from time to time to obtain credit.


*Credit card account* is a credit account established in conjunction with the issuance of, or the extension of credit through, a credit card. This term includes loans made to consolidate credit card debt, including credit card debt held by other lenders, and participation certificates, securities and similar instruments secured by credit card receivables.


*Home loans* include any loans made on the security of a home (including a dwelling unit in a multi-family residential property such as a condominium or a cooperative), combinations of homes and business property (*i.e.,* a home used in part for business), farm residences, and combinations of farm residences and commercial farm real estate.


*Investment grade* means a security that meets the creditworthiness standards described in 12 U.S.C. 1831e.


*Loan commitment* includes a loan in process, a letter of credit, or any other commitment to extend credit.


*Real estate loan,* for purposes of this part, is a loan for which the savings association substantially relies upon a security interest in real estate given by the borrower as a condition of making the loan. A loan is made on the security of real estate if:


(1) The security property is real estate pursuant to the law of the state in which the property is located;


(2) The security interest of the Federal savings association may be enforced as a real estate mortgage or its equivalent pursuant to the law of the state in which the property is located;


(3) The security property is capable of separate appraisal; and


(4) With regard to a security property that is a leasehold or other interest for a period of years, the term of the interest extends, or is subject to extension or renewal at the option of the Federal savings association for a term of at least five years following the maturity of the loan.


*Small business* includes a small business concern or entity as defined by section 3(a) of the Small Business Act, 15 U.S.C. 632(a), and implemented by the regulations of the Small Business Administration at 13 CFR part 121.


*Small business loans* and *loans to small businesses* include any loan to a small business as defined in this section; or a loan that does not exceed $2 million (including a group of loans to one borrower) and is for commercial, corporate, business, or agricultural purposes.


*Total capital* means:


(1) For a qualifying community banking organization that has elected to use the community bank leverage ratio framework, as set forth under the OCC's Capital Adequacy Standards at part 3 of this chapter, total capital refers to the qualifying community banking organization's tier 1 capital, as used under ยง 3.12(b)(2) of this chapter;


(2) For all other Federal savings associations, total capital means the sum of tier 1 capital and tier 2 capital, as calculated under part 3 of this chapter.



---

[N] [76 FR 49030, Aug. 9, 2011, as amended at 77 FR 35258, June 13, 2012; 84 FR 61795, Nov. 13, 2019]




