# § 535.504   Certain judicial proceedings with respect to property of Iran or Iranian entities.

(a) Subject to the limitations of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section and § 535.222, judicial proceedings are authorized with respect to property in which on or after 8:10 a.m., e.s.t., November 14, 1979, there has existed an interest of Iran or an Iranian entity.


(b) This section does not authorize:


(1) Any pre-judgment attachment or any other proceeding of similar or analogous effect pertaining to any property (and any income earned thereon) subject to the provisions of §§ 535.211, 535.212, 535.213, 535.214 or 535.215 on January 19, 1981, including, but not limited to, a temporary restraining order or preliminary injunction, which operates as a restraint on property, for purposes of holding it within the jurisdiction of a court, or otherwise;


(2) Any payment or delivery out of a blocked account based upon a judicial proceeding, pertaining to any property subject to the provisions of § 535.211, § 535.212, § 535.213, § 535.214 or § 535.215 on January 19, 1981;


(3)(i) Any final judicial judgment or order (A) permanently enjoining, (B) terminating or nullifying, or (C) otherwise permanently disposing of any interest of Iran in any standby letter of credit, performance bond or similar obligation. Any license authorizing such action is hereby revoked and withdrawn. This revocation and withdrawal of prior licenses prohibits judgments or orders that are within the terms of this paragraph (b)(3)(i), including any such judgments or orders which may have been previously entered but which had not become final by July 2, 1982, through the conclusion of appellate proceedings or the expiration of the time for appeal.


(ii) Nothing in this paragraph (b)(3) shall prohibit the assertion of any defense, set-off or counterclaim in any pending or subsequent judicial proceeding commenced by the Government of Iran, any political subdivision of Iran, or any agency, instrumentality or entity owned or controlled by the Government of Iran or any political subdivision thereof.


(iii) Nothing in this paragraph (b)(3) shall preclude the commencement of an action for the purpose of tolling the period of limitations for commencement of such action.


(iv) Nothing in this paragraph (b)(3) shall require dismissal of any action for want of prosecution.


(c) For purposes of this section, contested and contingent liabilities and property interests of the Government of Iran, its agencies, instrumentalities, or controlled entities, including debts, shall be deemed to be subject to § 535.215.


(d) A judicial proceeding is not authorized by this section if it is based on transactions which violated the prohibitions of this part.


(e) Judicial proceedings to obtain attachments on standby letters of credit, performance bonds or similar obligations and on substitute blocked accounts established under § 535.568 relating to standby letters of credit, performance bonds and similar obligations are not authorized or licensed.



---

[N] [46 FR 14336, Feb. 26, 1981, as amended at 46 FR 26477, May 13, 1981; 47 FR 29529, July 7, 1982; 47 FR 55482, Dec. 10, 1982; 48 FR 57129, Dec. 28, 1983]




