# ยง 113.26   Effective dates of bonds and riders.

(a) *General.* A continuous bond, and any associated application required by ยง 113.11, or rider, may be filed up to 60 days prior to the effective date requested for the continuous bond or rider.


(b) *Single transaction bond.* A single transaction bond is effective on the date of the transaction identified on CBP Form 301.


(c) *Continuous bond.* A continuous bond is effective on the effective date identified on CBP Form 301.


(d) *Riders for name change of principal, address change, and addition of trade names and unincorporated divisions of a corporate principal.* Riders for a name change of principal, address change, and addition of trade names and unincorporated divisions of a corporate principal are effective on the effective date identified on the rider.


(e) *Rider to delete trade names and unincorporated divisions of a corporate principal.* A rider to delete trade names and unincorporated divisions of a corporate principal is effective on the effective date identified on the rider if the date is at least 10 business days after the date the port receives the rider. If the rider is not received 10 business days before the identified effective date or no effective date is identified on the rider, it will be effective on the close of business of the tenth business day after it is received in the port.



---

[N] [T.D. 84-213, 49 FR 41171, Oct. 19, 1984, as amended at 80 FR 70164, Nov. 13, 2015; CBP Dec. 15-15, 81 FR 15159, Mar. 22, 2016]




