# § 300.103   Basic requirements.

(a) *Job analysis.* Each employment practice of the Federal Government generally, and of individual agencies, shall be based on a job analysis to identify: 


(1) The basic duties and responsibilities; 


(2) The knowledges, skills, and abilities required to perform the duties and responsibilities; and 


(3) The factors that are important in evaluating candidates. The job analysis may cover a single position or group of positions, or an occupation or group of occupations, having common characteristics. 


(b) *Relevance.* (1) There shall be a rational relationship between performance in the position to be filled (or in the target position in the case of an entry position) and the employment practice used. The demonstration of rational relationship shall include a showing that the employment practice was professionally developed. A minimum educational requirement may not be established except as authorized under section 3308 of title 5, United States Code. 


(2) In the case of an entry position the required relevance may be based upon the target position when—


(i) The entry position is a training position or the first of a progressive series of established training and development positions leading to a target position at a higher level; and 


(ii) New employees, within a reasonable period of time and in the great majority of cases, can expect to progress to a target position at a higher level. 


(c) *Equal employment opportunity and prohibited forms of discrimination.* An employment practice must not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy and gender identity), national origin, age (as defined by the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, as amended), disability, genetic information (including family medical history), marital status, political affiliation, sexual orientation, labor organization affiliation or nonaffiliation, status as a parent, or any other non-merit-based factor, or retaliation for exercising rights with respect to the categories enumerated above, where retaliation rights are available. Employee selection procedures shall meet the standards established by the “Uniform Guidelines on Employee Selection Procedures,” where applicable.



---

[N] [40 FR 15380, Apr. 7, 1975, as amended at 43 FR 38310, Aug. 25, 1978; 79 FR 43922, July 29, 2014] 




