# § 200.926   Minimum property standards for one and two family dwellings.

(a) *Construction standards*—(1) *Applicable structures.* The standards identified or contained in this section, and in §§ 200.926a-200.926e, apply to single family detached homes, duplexes, three-unit homes, and to living units in a structure where the units are located side-by-side in town house fashion. Section 200.926d(c)(4) also applies to four-unit homes.


(2) *Applicability of standards to new construction.* The standards referenced in paragraph (a)(1) of this section are applicable to structures which are:


(i) Approved for insurance or other benefits prior to the start of construction, including approval under the Direct Endorsement process described in § 203.5 of this chapter, or under the Lender Insurance process described in § 203.6 of this chapter;


(ii) Approved for insurance or other benefits based upon participation in an insured warranty program; or


(iii) Insured as new construction based upon a Certificate of Reasonable Value issued by the Department of Veterans Affairs.


(b) *Conflicting standards.* The requirements contained in § 200.926d do not preempt local or State standards, nor do they alter or affect a builder's obligation to comply with any local or State requirements. However, a property shall be eligible for benefits only if it complies with the requirements of this subpart, including any referenced standards. When any of the requirements identified in § 200.926c are in conflict with a partially accepted local or state code, the conflict will be resolved by the HUD Field Office servicing the jurisdiction in which the property is to be located. 


(c) *Standard for evaluating local or state building codes.* The Secretary shall compare a local building code submitted under paragraph (d) of this section or a State code to the list of construction related areas contained in § 200.926a. 


(1) A local or State code will be accepted if it regulates each area and subarea on the list. 


(2) A State or local building code will be partially accepted if it regulates most of the areas on the list. However, no code may be partially accepted if it fails to regulate the subarea for seismic design (see § 200.926a(c)(5)), or if it fails to regulate subareas in more than one of the following major areas listed in § 200.926a: fire safety, light and ventilation, structural loads and seismic design, foundation systems, materials standards, construction components, glass, mechanical, plumbing, and electrical. 


(3) For purposes of this paragraph, a local or State code regulates an area or subarea if it establishes a standard concerning that area or subarea. However, for earthquake loads (see § 200.926a(c)(5)), ASCE 7-88 is mandatory. 


(d) *Code selection.* Any materials required to be submitted under this section must be submitted by the time the lender or other interested party applies for mortgage insurance or other benefits. 


(1) *Jurisdictions without previously accepted building codes.* The following submission requirements apply to lenders and other interested parties in jurisdictions without building codes, jurisdictions with building codes which have never been submitted for acceptance, and jurisdictions with building codes which previously have been submitted for acceptance and have not been accepted or partially accepted by the Secretary. 


(i) In jurisdictions without local building codes: 


(A) If the State building code is acceptable, the lender or other interested party must comply with the State building code and the requirements of § 200.926d; 


(B) If the State building code is partially acceptable, the lender or other interested party must comply with: 


(*1*) The acceptable portions of the partially acceptable code; and 


(*2*) Those portions of the CABO One and Two Family Dwelling Code designated by the HUD Field Office in accordance with § 200.926c; and 


(*3*) The requirements of § 200.926d.


(C) If there is no State building code or if the State building code is unacceptable, the lender or other interested party must comply with: 


(*1*) The CABO One and Two Family Dwelling Code as identified in § 200.926b(a); and


(*2*) The requirements of § 200.926d. 


(ii) In jurisdictions with local building codes which have never been submitted for review, lenders or other interested parties must: 


(A) Comply with the requirements of paragraph (d)(1)(i) (A), (B) or (C) of this section, as appropriate; or


(B) Request the Secretary's acceptance of the local building code in accordance with paragraph (d)(1)(iv) of this section.


(*1*) If the Secretary determines that the local building code is unacceptable, then the lender or other interested party must comply with the requirements of paragraph (d)(1)(i) (A), (B) or (C) of this section as appropriate.


(*2*) If the Secretary determines that the local code is partially acceptable, then the lender or other interested party must comply with:


(*i*) The acceptable portions of the partially acceptable local code; and


(*ii*) Those portions of the CABO One and Two Family Dwelling Code designated by the HUD Field Office in accordance with § 200.926c; and 


(*iii*) The requirements of § 200.926d.


(*3*) If the Secretary determines that the local code is acceptable, then the lender or other interested party must comply with the local building code and the requirements of § 200.926d.


(iii) In jurisdictions with local building codes which previously have been submitted for review and which have been found unacceptable by the Secretary:


(A) If the local code has not been changed since the date the code or changes thereto were submitted to the Secretary, the lender or other interested party must comply with the requirements of paragraph (d)(1)(i) (A), (B) or (C) of this section, as appropriate; or 


(B) If the local code has been changed since the date when the code or changes thereto were submitted to the Secretary, the lender or other interested party must submit a copy of all changes to the local building code, including all applicable service codes and appendices and a copy of the statute, ordinance, regulation or order making such changes in the code, which have been made since the date when the code or other changes thereto were last submitted to the Secretary. However, the lender or other interested party need not submit any part already in the possession of the HUD Field Office. Based upon the Secretary's determination concerning the acceptability of the local code as changed, the lender or other interested party must comply with the requirements of paragraph (d)(1)(ii)(B) (*1*), (*2*) or (*3*) of this section, as appropriate.


(iv) In order to obtain the Department's approval of a local code, the lender or other interested party must submit the following material to the HUD Field Office serving the jurisdiction in which the property is to be constructed:


(A) A copy of the jurisdiction's local building code, including all applicable service codes and appendices; and 


(B) A copy of the statute, ordinance, regulation, or order establishing the code, if such statute, ordinance, regulation or order is not contained in the building code itself.


(2) *Jurisdictions with previously accepted or partially accepted building codes.* The following submission requirements apply to lenders or other interested parties in any jurisdiction with a building code which has been accepted or partially accepted by the Secretary:


(i) The lender or other interested party shall submit to the HUD Field Office serving the jurisdiction in which the property is to be constructed:


(A) A certificate stating that, since the date when the code or any changes thereto were last submitted to the Secretary, the jurisdiction's local building code has not been changed; or 


(B)(*1*) A copy of all changes to the jurisdiction's building code, including all applicable service codes and appendices, which have been made since the date when the code or other changes thereto were last submitted to the Secretary. However, the lender or other interested party need not submit any part already in the possession of the HUD Field Office; and


(*2*) A copy of the statute, ordinance, regulation, or order making such changes in the code.


(ii) If, based upon changes to the local building code, the Secretary determines that it is unacceptable, the lender or other interested party must comply with the requirements of paragraph (d)(1) (i)(A), (B) or (C) of this section, as appropriate.


(iii) If the local building code was previously found by the Secretary to be partially acceptable and there have been no changes to it or if the local building code was previously found by the Secretary to be partially acceptable and if, based upon changes to it, the Secretary determines that it is still partially acceptable or if the local building code was previously found by the Secretary to be acceptable and if, based upon changes to it, the Secretary determines that it is partially acceptable, then the lender or other interested party must comply with paragraphs (d)(1)(ii)(B)(*2*) (*i*), (*ii*) and (*iii*) of this section.


(iv) If the local building code was previously found by the Secretary to be partially acceptable and if, based upon changes to it, the Secretary determines that it is acceptable, or if the local building code was previously found by the Secretary to be acceptable and there have been no changes to the code, or if the local building code was previously found by the Secretary to be acceptable and if, based upon changes to it, the Secretary determines that it is still acceptable, then the lender or other interested party must comply with the local building code and the requirements of § 200.926d.


(3) *Notification of decision.* (i) Fire retardant treated plywood, where approved by a State or local building code, shall not be permitted for use in roof construction unless a HUD technical suitability bulletin has been issued by the Department for that product. 


(ii) The Secretary shall review the material submitted under § 200.926(d). Following that review, the Secretary shall issue a written notice (except where there is a previously accepted or partially accepted code which has not been changed) to the submitting party stating whether the local building code is acceptable, partially acceptable, or not acceptable. Where the local building code is not acceptable, the notice shall also state whether the State code is acceptable, partially acceptable or not acceptable. The notice shall also contain the basis for the Secretary's decision and a notification of the submitting party's right to present its views concerning the denial of acceptance if the code is neither accepted nor partially accepted. The Secretary may, in his or her discretion, permit either an oral or written presentation of views.


(4) *Department's responsibilities.* (i) Each Regional and Field Office will maintain a current list of jurisdictions with accepted local or State building codes, a current list of jurisdictions with partially accepted local or State building codes and a current list of jurisdictions with local or State building codes which have not been accepted. For local codes, the lists will state the most recent date when the code or changes thereto were submitted to the Secretary. The lists, which shall be prepared by the Field Offices and submitted to the Regional Offices, will be available to any interested party upon request. In addition, the list of jurisdictions whose codes have been partially accepted shall identify in accordance with § 200.926c those portions of the codes listed at § 200.926b(a) with which the property must comply.


(ii) The Department is responsible for obtaining copies of the State codes and any changes thereto.



---

[N] [50 FR 39592, Sept. 27, 1985, as amended at 57 FR 27927, June 23, 1992; 57 FR 58340, Dec. 9, 1992; 58 FR 13536, Mar. 12, 1993; 58 FR 41337, Aug. 3, 1993; 58 FR 60249, Nov. 15, 1993; 59 FR 36695, July 19, 1994; 62 FR 30225, June 2, 1997; 64 FR 56110, Oct. 15, 1999]




