# § 165.T08-0988   Safety Zone; Port Arthur Canal, Sabine, Pass, TX.

(a) *Location.* (1) The following areas are safety zones:


(i) Port Arthur Canal in the vicinity of Golden Pass Liquiefied Natural Gas (LNG), shoreline to shoreline, between a western boundary of 093°55′44″ N and an eastern boundary of 093°54′36″ W;


(ii) Port Arthur Canal in the vicinity of Golden Pass LNG between a western boundary of 093°55′44″ N and an eastern boundary of 093°54′36″ W and extending from the south/west shoreline to the near channel limits as charted; and


(iii) Golden Pass LNG ship mooring basin within the following boundaries: starting on the shoreline west of the mooring basin at position 29°45′57.9″ N 093°55′39.6″ W, thence northeast to 29°45′59.25″ N 093°55′37.5″ W, thence to position W, thence to the shoreline on the east side of the basin at position 29°45′50.7″ N 093°55′17.0″ W. All coordinates based on North American Datum of 1983 (NAD83).


(2) Based on the test being performed, the least restrictive exclusion zone will be enforced.


(b) *Definitions.* As used in this section, *designated representative* means a Coast Guard Patrol officer, petty officer, or other officer operating a Coast Guard vessel and a Federal, State, and local officer designated by or assisting the Captain of the Port, Port Arthur, TX (COTP), in the enforcement of the safety zone.


(c) *Regulations.* (1) Under the general safety zone regulations in subpart C of this part, you may not enter the safety zone described in paragraph (a) of this section unless authorized by the COTP or the COTP's designated representative.


(2) To seek permission to enter, contact Vessel Traffic Service (VTS) Port Arthur on VHF channel 01A, or the COTP's on scene representative on VHF channel 13 or 16. Those in the safety zone must comply with all lawful orders or directions given to them by the COTP or the COTP's designated representative.


(d) *Enforcement periods.* The safety zones in paragraph (a) of this section is in effect from January 20, 2023, through June 30, 2025. This section will be subject to enforcement when high pressure tests are being conducted. Mariners will be informed of enforcement zone and enforcement periods by Broadcast Notice to Mariners, VTS Advisory, and the presence of enforcement vessels displaying flashing blue law enforcement lights.





---

[N] [USCG-2022-0988, 88 FR 1147, Jan. 9, 2023, as amended by USCG-2022-0988, 89 FR 100745, Dec. 13, 2024]


