# § 246.10   Supplemental foods.

(a) *General.* This section prescribes the requirements for providing supplemental foods to participants. The State agency must ensure that local agencies comply with this section.


(b) *State agency responsibilities.* (1) State agencies may:


(i) Establish criteria in addition to the minimum Federal requirements in table 4 to paragraph (e)(12) of this section for the supplemental foods in their States, except that the State agency may not selectively choose which eligible fruits and vegetables are available to participants. These State agency criteria could address, but not be limited to, other nutritional standards, competitive cost, State-wide availability, and participant appeal. For eligible fruits and vegetables, State agencies may restrict packaging, *e.g.,* plastic containers, and package sizes such as single serving of processed fruits and vegetables available for purchase with the cash-value voucher. In addition, State agencies may identify certain processed WIC-eligible fruits and vegetables on food lists where the potential exists for vendor or participant confusion in determining authorized WIC-eligible items.


(ii) Make food package adjustments to better accommodate participants who are homeless. At the State agency's option, these adjustments would include, but not be limited to, issuing authorized supplemental foods in individual serving-size containers to accommodate lack of food storage or preparation facilities.


(iii) Authorize package sizes, in addition to those authorized to fulfill paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, that increase participant variety and choice, except WIC formula, which must be authorized in sizes that correspond with the maximum monthly allowances per paragraphs (e)(9) and (11) of this section.


(2) State agencies must:


(i) Identify the brands of foods and package sizes that are acceptable for use in the Program in their States in accordance with the requirements of this section; all State agencies must authorize at least one package size (or combination of package sizes) that equal or add up to the maximum monthly allowances of all authorized supplemental foods in each of the food packages. State agencies must also provide to local agencies, and include in the State Plan, a list of acceptable foods and their maximum monthly allowances as specified in tables 1 through 4 to paragraphs (e)(9) through (12) of this section; and


(ii) Ensure that local agencies:


(A) Make available to participants the maximum monthly allowances of authorized supplemental foods, except as noted in paragraph (c) of this section, inform participants about the maximum monthly allowances of authorized supplemental foods to which they are entitled as a Program participant and any food substitution options as specified in tables 1 through 3 to paragraphs (e)(9) through (11) of this section that the State agency authorizes, and abide by the authorized substitution rates for WIC food substitutions as specified in tables 1 through 3 to paragraphs (e)(9) through (11);


(B) Make available to participants more than one food from each WIC food category except for the categories of peanut butter and eggs, and any of the WIC-eligible fruits and vegetables (fresh or processed) in each authorized food package as listed in paragraph (e) of this section;


(C) Authorize only a competent professional authority to prescribe the categories of authorized supplemental foods in quantities that do not exceed the regulatory maximum and are appropriate for the participant, taking into consideration the participant's nutritional and breastfeeding needs; and


(D) Advise participants or their caretaker, when appropriate, that the supplemental foods issued are only for their personal use. However, the supplemental foods are not authorized for participant use while hospitalized on an in-patient basis. In addition, consistent with § 246.7(m)(1)(i)(B), supplemental foods are not authorized for use in the preparation of meals served in a communal food service. This restriction does not preclude the provision or use of supplemental foods for individual participants in a nonresidential setting (*e.g.,* child care facility, family day care home, school, or other educational program); a homeless facility that meets the requirements of § 246.7(m)(1); or, at the State agency's discretion, a residential institution (*e.g.,* home for pregnant teens, prison, or residential drug treatment center) that meets the requirements currently set forth in § 246.7(m)(1) and (2).


(c) *Nutrition tailoring.* Nutrition tailoring is the process of modifying an individual food package to better meet the supplemental nutritional needs of each participant. It entails making substitutions, reductions, and/or eliminations to food types and physical food forms in accordance with paragraphs (e)(9) through (11) of this section to accommodate special dietary needs, cultural practices, and/or personal preference. The full maximum monthly allowances of all supplemental foods in all food packages must be made available to participants unless medically or nutritionally warranted. Reductions in these amounts cannot be made for cost-savings, administrative convenience, caseload management, or to control vendor abuse. Reductions in these amounts or eliminations of foods cannot be made for categories, groups, or subgroups of WIC participants and may be done only after a nutrition assessment and offering substitution options available in the State in accordance with paragraphs (e)(9) through (11) and State agency policy. The provision of less than the maximum monthly allowances of supplemental foods to an individual WIC participant in all food packages is appropriate only when:


(1) Medically or nutritionally warranted (*e.g.,* to eliminate a food due to a food allergy);


(2) A participant refuses or cannot use the maximum monthly allowances, or chooses to take less than the maximum monthly allowance; or


(3) The quantities necessary to supplement another program's contribution to fill a medical prescription would be less than the maximum monthly allowances.


(d) *Medical documentation*—(1) *Supplemental foods requiring medical documentation.* Medical documentation is required for the issuance of the following supplemental foods:


(i) Any non-contract brand infant formula;


(ii) Any infant formula prescribed to an infant, child, or adult who receives Food Package III (see paragraph (e)(3) of this section);


(iii) Any exempt infant formula;


(iv) Any WIC-eligible nutritional;


(v) Any authorized supplemental food issued to participants who receive Food Package III; and


(vi) Any contract brand infant formula that does not meet the requirements in table 4 to paragraph (e)(12) of this section.


(2) *Medical documentation for other supplemental foods.* (i) State agencies may authorize local agencies to issue a non-contract brand infant formula that meets the requirements in table 4 to paragraph (e)(12) of this section without medical documentation in order to meet religious eating patterns; and


(ii) The State agency has the discretion to require medical documentation for any contract brand infant formula other than the primary contract infant formula and may decide that some contract brand infant formula may not be issued under any circumstances.


(3) *Medical determination.* For purposes of this paragraph (d), medical documentation means that a health care professional licensed to write medical prescriptions under State law has:


(i) Made a medical determination that the participant has a qualifying condition as described in paragraphs (e)(1) through (7) of this section that dictates the use of the supplemental foods, as described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section; and


(ii) Provided the written documentation that meets the technical requirements described in paragraphs (d)(4)(ii) and (iii) of this section.


(4) *Technical requirements*—(i) *Location.* All medical documentation must be kept on file (electronic or hard copy) at the local clinic. The medical documentation kept on file must include the initial telephone documentation, when received as described in paragraph (d)(4)(iii)(B) of this section.


(ii) *Content.* All medical documentation must include the following:


(A) The name of the authorized WIC formula (infant formula, exempt infant formula, WIC-eligible nutritional) prescribed, including amount needed per day;


(B) The authorized supplemental food(s) appropriate for the qualifying condition(s) and their prescribed amounts;


(C) Length of time the prescribed WIC formula and/or supplemental food is required by the participant;


(D) The qualifying condition(s) for issuance of the authorized supplemental food(s) requiring medical documentation, as described in paragraphs (e)(1) through (7) of this section; and


(E) Signature, date, and contact information (or name, date, and contact information), if the initial medical documentation was received by telephone and the signed document is forthcoming, of the health care professional licensed by the State to write prescriptions in accordance with State laws.


(iii) *Written confirmation*—(A) *General.* Medical documentation must be written and may be provided as an original written document, an electronic document, or by facsimile or telephone to a competent professional authority until written confirmation is received.


(B) *Medical documentation provided by telephone.* Medical documentation may be provided by telephone to a competent professional authority who must promptly document the information. The collection of the required information by telephone for medical documentation purposes may only be used until written confirmation is received from a health care professional licensed to write medical prescriptions and used only when absolutely necessary on an individual participant basis. The local clinic must obtain written confirmation of the medical documentation within a reasonable amount of time (*i.e.,* one- or two-weeks' time) after accepting the initial medical documentation by telephone.


(5) *Medical supervision requirements.* Due to the nature of the health conditions of participants who are issued supplemental foods that require medical documentation, close medical supervision is essential for each participant's dietary management. The responsibility remains with the participant's health care provider for this medical oversight and instruction. This responsibility cannot be assumed by personnel at the WIC State or local agency. However, it would be the responsibility of the WIC competent professional authority to ensure that only the amounts of supplemental foods prescribed by the participant's health care provider are issued in the participant's food package.


(e) *Food packages.* There are seven food packages available under the Program that may be provided to participants. The authorized supplemental foods must be prescribed from food packages according to the category and nutritional needs of the participants. Breastfeeding assessment and the mother's plans for breastfeeding serve as the basis for determining food package issuance for all breastfeeding women. The intent of the WIC Program is that all breastfeeding women be supported to exclusively breastfeed their infants and to choose the fully breastfeeding food package without infant formula. Breastfeeding mothers whose infants receive formula from WIC are to be supported to breastfeed to the maximum extent possible with minimal supplementation with infant formula. Formula amounts issued to a breastfed infant are to be tailored to meet but not exceed the infant's nutritional needs. The seven food packages are as follows:


(1) *Food Package I—Infants birth through 5 months*—(i) *Participant category served.* This food package is designed for issuance to infants from birth through age 5 months who do not have a condition qualifying them to receive Food Package III (see paragraph (e)(3) of this section). The following infant feeding variations are defined for the purposes of assigning food quantities and types in Food Packages I: Fully breastfeeding (the infant doesn't receive formula from the WIC Program); partially (mostly) breastfeeding (the infant is breastfed but also receives infant formula from WIC up to the maximum allowance described for partially (mostly) breastfed infants in table 1 to paragraph (e)(9) of this section; and fully formula fed (the infant is not breastfed or is breastfed minimally (the infant receives infant formula from WIC in quantities that exceed those allowed for partially (mostly) breastfed infants).


(ii) *Infant feeding age categories*—*Birth through 5 months.* Three infant food packages are available from birth through 5 months—fully breastfeeding, partially (mostly) breastfeeding, or fully formula-fed.


(iii) *Infant formula requirements.* This food package provides iron-fortified infant formula that is not an exempt infant formula and that meets the requirements in table 4 to paragraph (e)(12) of this section. The issuance of any contract brand or noncontract brand infant formula that contains less than 10 milligrams of iron per liter (at least 1.5 milligrams iron per 100 kilocalories) at standard dilution is prohibited. Except as specified in paragraph (d) of this section, local agencies must issue as the first choice of issuance the primary contract infant formula, as defined in § 246.2, with all other infant formulas issued as an alternative to the primary contract infant formula. Noncontract brand infant formula and any contract brand infant formula that does not meet the requirements in table 4 to paragraph (e)(12) of this section may be issued in this food package only with medical documentation of the qualifying condition. A health care professional licensed by the State to write prescriptions must make a medical determination and provide medical documentation that indicates the need for the infant formula. For situations that do not require the use of an exempt infant formula, such determinations include, but are not limited to, documented formula intolerance, food allergy or inappropriate growth pattern. Medical documentation must meet the requirements described in paragraph (d) of this section.


(iv) *Physical forms.* Local agencies must issue all WIC formulas (infant formula, exempt infant formula and WIC-eligible nutritionals) in concentrated liquid or powder physical forms. Ready-to-feed WIC formulas may be authorized when the competent professional authority determines and documents that:


(A) The participant's household has an unsanitary or restricted water supply or poor refrigeration;


(B) The person caring for the participant may have difficulty in correctly diluting concentrated or powder forms; or


(C) The WIC infant formula is only available in ready-to-feed.


(v) *Authorized category of supplemental foods.* Infant formula is the only category of supplemental foods authorized in this food package. Exempt infant formulas and WIC-eligible nutritionals are authorized only in Food Package III (see paragraph (e)(3) of this section). The maximum monthly allowances, allowed options, and substitution rates of supplemental foods for infants in Food Packages I are stated in table 1 to paragraph (e)(9) of this section.


(2) *Food Package II—Infants 6 through 11 months*—(i) *Participant category served.* This food package is designed for issuance to infants from 6 through 11 months of age who do not have a condition qualifying them to receive Food Package III (see paragraph (e)(3) of this section).


(ii) *Infant food packages.* Three food packages for infants 6 through 11 months are available—fully breastfeeding, partially (mostly) breastfeeding, or fully formula fed.


(iii) *Infant formula requirements.* The requirements for issuance of infant formula in Food Package I, specified in paragraphs (e)(1)(iii) and (iv) of this section, also apply to the issuance of infant formula in Food Package II.


(iv) *Authorized categories of supplemental foods.* Infant formula, infant cereal, and infant foods are the categories of supplemental foods authorized in this food package. The maximum monthly allowances, allowed options, and substitution rates of supplemental foods for infants in Food Packages II are stated in table 1 to paragraph (e)(9) of this section.


(3) *Food Package III—Participants with qualifying conditions*—(i) *Participant category served and qualifying conditions.* This food package is reserved for issuance to women, infants, and children who have a documented qualifying condition that requires the use of a WIC formula (infant formula, exempt infant formula, or WIC-eligible nutritional) because the use of conventional foods is precluded, restricted, or inadequate to address their special nutritional needs. Medical documentation must meet the requirements described in paragraph (d) of this section. Participants who are eligible to receive this food package must have one or more qualifying conditions, as determined by a health care professional licensed to write medical prescriptions under State law. The qualifying conditions include but are not limited to premature birth, low birth weight, failure to thrive, inborn errors of metabolism and metabolic disorders, gastrointestinal disorders, malabsorption syndromes, immune system disorders, severe food allergies that require an elemental formula, and life threatening disorders, diseases and medical conditions that impair ingestion, digestion, absorption, or the utilization of nutrients that could adversely affect the participant's nutrition status. This food package may not be issued solely for the purpose of enhancing nutrient intake or managing body weight.


(ii) *Non-authorized issuance of Food Package III.* This food package is not authorized for:


(A) Infants whose only condition is:


(*1*) A diagnosed formula intolerance or food allergy to lactose, sucrose, milk protein, or soy protein that does not require the use of an exempt infant formula; or


(*2*) A non-specific formula or food intolerance;


(B) Women and children who have a food intolerance to lactose or milk protein that can be successfully managed with the use of one of the other WIC food packages (*i.e.,* Food Packages IV through VII (see paragraph (e)(4) through (7) of this section); or


(C) Any participant solely for the purpose of enhancing nutrient intake or managing body weight without an underlying qualifying condition.


(iii) *Restrictions on the issuance of WIC formulas in ready-to-feed (RTF) forms.* WIC State agencies must issue WIC formulas (infant formula, exempt infant formula, and WIC-eligible nutritionals) in concentrated liquid or powder physical forms unless the requirements for issuing RTF are met as described in paragraph (e)(1)(iv) of this section. In addition to those requirements, there are two additional conditions which may be used to issue RTF in Food Package III:


(A) If a ready-to-feed form better accommodates the participant's condition; or


(B) If it improves the participant's compliance in consuming the prescribed WIC formula.


(iv) *Unauthorized WIC costs.* All apparatuses or devices (*e.g.,* enteral feeding tubes, bags, and pumps) designed to administer WIC formulas are not allowable WIC costs.


(v) *Authorized categories of supplemental foods.* The supplemental foods authorized in this food package require medical documentation for issuance and include WIC formula (infant formula, exempt infant formula, and WIC-eligible nutritionals), infant cereal, infant foods, milk, eggs, canned fish, fresh and other State-authorized forms of fruits and vegetables, breakfast cereal, whole wheat/whole grain bread, juice, and legumes and/or peanut butter. The maximum monthly allowances, allowed options, and substitution rates of supplemental foods for infants in Food Package III are stated in table 1 to paragraph (e)(9) of this section. The maximum monthly allowances, allowed options, and substitution rates of supplemental foods for children and women in Food Package III are stated in table 3 to paragraph (e)(11) of this section.


(vi) *Coordination with medical payors and other programs that provide or reimburse for formulas.* WIC State agencies must coordinate with other Federal, State, or local government agencies or with private agencies that operate programs that also provide or could reimburse for exempt infant formulas and WIC-eligible nutritionals benefits to mutual participants. At a minimum, a WIC State agency must coordinate with the State Medicaid Program for the provision of exempt infant formulas and WIC-eligible nutritionals that are authorized or could be authorized under the State Medicaid Program for reimbursement and that are prescribed for WIC participants who are also Medicaid recipients. The WIC State agency is responsible for providing up to the maximum amount of exempt infant formulas and WIC-eligible nutritionals under Food Package III in situations where reimbursement is not provided by another entity.


(4) *Food Package IV-A and B—Children 1 through 4 years*—(i) *Participant category served.* This food package is designed for issuance to children 1 through 4 years of age who do not have a condition qualifying them to receive Food Package III (see paragraph (e)(3) of this section) and is divided into: Food Package IV-A for children 1 to less than 2 years of age (*i.e.,* 12 through 23 months) and Food Package IV-B for children 2 years through 4 years of age.


(ii) *Authorized categories of supplemental foods.* Milk, breakfast cereal, juice, fresh and other State-authorized forms of fruits and vegetables, whole wheat/whole grain bread, eggs, legumes or peanut butter, and canned fish are the categories of supplemental foods authorized for both Food Package IV-A and IV-B. The maximum monthly allowances, allowed options, and substitution rates of supplemental foods for children in Food Packages IV-A and IV-B are stated in table 2 to paragraph (e)(10) of this section.


(5) *Food Package V-A and B—Pregnant and partially (mostly) breastfeeding women*—(i) *Participant categories served.* This food package is designed for issuance to three categories of women who do not have a condition qualifying them to receive Food Package III (see paragraph (e)(3) of this section) and is divided into: Food Package V-A for issuance to women with singleton pregnancies and Food Package V-B for issuance to women pregnant with two or more fetuses and, for up to 1 year postpartum, partially (mostly) breastfeeding women whose partially (mostly) breastfed infants receive formula from the WIC Program in amounts that do not exceed the maximum allowances described in table 1 to paragraph (e)(9) of this section. Women partially (mostly) breastfeeding more than one infant from the same pregnancy and pregnant women fully or partially breastfeeding singleton infants are eligible to receive Food Package VII as described in paragraph (e)(7) of this section.


(ii) *Authorized categories of supplemental foods.* Milk, breakfast cereal, juice, fresh and other State-authorized forms of fruits and vegetables, whole wheat/whole grain bread, eggs, legumes and peanut butter, and canned fish are the categories of supplemental foods authorized in this food package. The maximum monthly allowances, allowed options, and substitution rates of supplemental foods for women in Food Packages V-A and V-B are stated in table 2 to paragraph (e)(10) of this section.


(6) *Food Package VI—Postpartum women*—(i) *Participant categories served.* This food package is designed for issuance to women up to 6 months postpartum who are not breastfeeding their infants, and to breastfeeding women up to 6 months postpartum whose participating infant receives more than the maximum amount of formula allowed for partially (mostly) breastfed infants as described in table 1 to paragraph (e)(9) of this section and who do not have a condition qualifying them to receive Food Package III (see paragraph (e)(3) of this section).


(ii) *Authorized categories of supplemental foods.* Milk, breakfast cereal, juice, fresh and other State-authorized forms of fruits and vegetables, whole wheat/whole grain bread, eggs, legumes or peanut butter, and canned fish are the categories of supplemental foods authorized in this food package. The maximum monthly allowances, allowed options, and substitution rates of supplemental foods for women in Food Package VI are stated in table 2 to paragraph (e)(10) of this section.


(7) *Food Package VII—Fully breastfeeding*—(i) *Participant categories served.* This food package is designed for issuance to breastfeeding women up to 1 year postpartum whose infants do not receive infant formula from WIC (these breastfeeding women are assumed to be exclusively breastfeeding their infants) and who do not have a condition qualifying them to receive Food Package III (see paragraph (e)(3) of this section). This food package is also designed for issuance to women partially (mostly) breastfeeding multiple infants from the same pregnancy, and pregnant women who are also partially (mostly) breastfeeding singleton infants and who do not have a condition qualifying them to receive Food Package III. Women fully breastfeeding multiple infants from the same pregnancy receive 1.5 times the supplemental foods provided in Food Package VII.


(ii) *Authorized categories of supplemental foods.* Milk, breakfast cereal, juice, fresh and other State-authorized forms of fruits and vegetables, whole wheat/whole grain bread, eggs, legumes and peanut butter, and canned fish are the categories of supplemental foods authorized in this food package. The maximum monthly allowances, allowed options, and substitution rates of supplemental foods for women in Food Package VII are stated in table 2 to paragraph (e)(10) of this section.


(8) *Supplemental foods—Maximum monthly allowances, options and substitution rates, and minimum requirements.* Tables 1 through 3 to paragraphs (e)(9) through (11) of this section specify the maximum monthly allowances of foods in WIC food packages and identify WIC food options and substitution rates. Table 4 to paragraph (e)(12) of this section describes the minimum requirements and specifications of supplemental foods in the WIC food packages.


(9) *Full nutrition benefit and maximum monthly allowances supplemental foods for infants in Food Packages I, II, and III.* Full nutrition benefit and maximum monthly allowances, options, and substitution rates of supplemental foods for infants in Food Packages I, II, and III (see paragraph (e)(1), (2), and (3) of this section) are stated in table 1 to this paragraph (e)(9) as follows:


(10) *Maximum monthly allowances of supplemental foods in Food Packages IV through VII.* The maximum monthly allowances, options, and substitution rates of supplemental foods for children and women in Food Packages IV through VII (see paragraphs (e)(4) through (7) of this section) are stated in table 2 to this paragraph (e)(10) as follows:


(11) *Maximum monthly allowances of supplemental foods for children and women with qualifying conditions in Food Package III.* The maximum monthly allowances, options, and substitution rates of supplemental foods for participants with qualifying conditions in Food Package III are stated in table 3 to this paragraph (e)(11) as follows:


(12) *Minimum requirements and specifications for supplemental foods.* Table 4 to this paragraph (e)(12) describes the minimum requirements and specifications for supplemental foods in all food packages:


(f) *USDA purchase of commodity foods.* (1) At the request of a State agency, FNS may purchase commodity foods for the State agency using funds allocated to the State agency. The commodity foods purchased and made available to the State agency must be equivalent to the foods specified in table 4 to paragraph (e)(12) of this section.


(2) The State agency must:


(i) Distribute the commodity foods to its local agencies or participants; and


(ii) Ensure satisfactory storage facilities and conditions for the commodity foods, including documentation of proper insurance.


(g) *Infant formula manufacturer registration.* Infant formula manufacturers supplying formula to the WIC Program must be registered with the Secretary of Health and Human Services under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 301 *et seq.*). Such manufacturers wishing to bid for a State contract to supply infant formula to the Program must certify with the State health department that their formulas comply with the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and regulations in this chapter issued pursuant to the Act.


(h) *Rounding up.* State agencies may round up to the next whole container for either infant formula or infant foods (infant cereal, fruits, vegetables, and meat). State agencies that use the rounding up option must calculate the amount of infant formula or infant foods provided according to the requirements and methodology as described in this section.


(1) *Infant formula.* State agencies must use the maximum monthly allowance of reconstituted fluid ounces of liquid concentrate infant formula as specified in table 1 to paragraph (e)(9) of this section as the full nutritional benefit (FNB) provided by infant formula for each food package category and infant feeding option (*e.g.,* Food Package IA fully formula fed, IA-FF (see paragraph (e)(1) of this section)).


(i) For State agencies that use rounding up of infant formula, the FNB is determined over the timeframe (the number of months) that the participant receives the food package. In any given month of the timeframe, the monthly issuance of reconstituted fluid ounces of infant formula may exceed the maximum monthly allowance or fall below the FNB; however, the cumulative average over the timeframe may not fall below the FNB without individual tailoring to allow “up to” amounts to support breastfeeding. In addition, the State agency must:


(A) Use the methodology described in paragraph (h)(1)(ii) of this section for calculating and dispersing the rounding up option;


(B) Issue infant formula in whole containers that are all the same size; and


(C) Disperse the number of whole containers as evenly as possible over the timeframe with the largest monthly issuances given in the beginning of the timeframe.


(ii) The methodology to calculate rounding up and dispersing infant formula to the next whole container over the food package timeframe is as follows:


(A) Multiply the FNB amount for the appropriate food package and feeding option (e.g., Food Package IA fully formula fed, IA-FF (see paragraph (e)(1) of this section)) by the timeframe the participant will receive the food package to determine the total amount of infant formula to be provided.


(B) Divide the total amount of infant formula to be provided by the yield of the container (in reconstituted fluid ounces) issued by the State agency to determine the total number of containers to be issued during the timeframe that the food package is prescribed.


(C) If the number of containers to be issued does not result in a whole number of containers, the State agency must round up to the next whole container in order to issue whole containers.


(2) *Infant foods.* (i) State agencies may use the rounding up option to the next whole container of infant food (infant cereal, fruits, vegetables, and meat) when the maximum monthly allowance cannot be issued due to varying container sizes of authorized infant foods.


(ii) State agencies that use the rounding up option for infant foods must:


(A) Use the methodology described in paragraph (h)(2)(iii) of this section for calculating and dispersing the rounding up option;


(B) Issue infant foods in whole containers; and


(C) Disperse the number of whole containers as evenly as possible over the timeframe (the number of months the participant will receive the food package).


(iii) The methodology to round up and disperse infant food is as follows:


(A) Multiply the maximum monthly allowance for the infant food by the timeframe the participant will receive the food package to determine the total amount of food to be provided.


(B) Divide the total amount of food provided by the container size issued by the State agency (*e.g.,* ounces) to determine the total number of food containers to be issued during the timeframe that the food package is prescribed.


(C) If the number of containers to be issued does not result in a whole number of containers, the State agency must round up to the next whole container in order to issue whole containers.


(i) *Plans for cultural substitutions.* (1) The State agency may submit to FNS a plan for substitution of food(s) acceptable for use in the Program in addition to the supplemental foods outlined in (see paragraph (e)(12) of this section) to allow for different cultural eating patterns. The plan shall provide the State agency's justification, including a specific explanation of the cultural eating pattern and other information necessary for FNS to evaluate the plan as specified in paragraph (i)(2) of this section.


(2) FNS will evaluate a State agency's plan for substitution of foods for different cultural eating patterns based on the following criteria:


(i) Any proposed substitute food must be nutritionally equivalent or superior to the food it is intended to replace.


(ii) The proposed substitute food must be widely available to participants in the areas where the substitute is intended to be used.


(iii) The cost of the substitute food must be assessed and comparable to the cost of the food it is intended to replace.


(3) FNS will make a determination on the proposed plan based on the evaluation criteria specified in paragraph (i)(2) of this section, as appropriate. The State agency shall substitute foods only after receiving the written approval of FNS.



---

[N] [89 FR 28518, Apr. 18, 2024]






