# § 725.18   Creditworthiness.

(a) Prior to Facility approval of each application of a Regular member for a Facility advance or an Agent member for a Facility advance for such Agent member's own need (provided such Agent may submit an application under § 725.17(b)(2)(iv) of this part), the Facility shall consider the creditworthiness of such member.


(b) Prior to an Agent's approval of each application of a member natural person credit union for an extension of credit on which an application by the Agent to the Facility will be based, an Agent shall consider the creditworthiness of such member natural person credit union.


(c) Specific characteristics of an uncreditworthy credit union include, but are not limited to, insolvency as defined in paragraph (1) to the definition of “insolvency” in § 700.2 of this chapter, unsatisfactory practices in extending credit, lower than desirable reserve levels, high expense ratio, failure to repay previous Facility advances as agreed, excessive dependence on borrowed funds, inadequate cash management policies and planning, or any other relevant characteristics creating a less than satisfactory condition. The presence of one or more of these characteristics will not necessarily mean that a credit union will be considered uncreditworthy.


(d) A credit union (whether a Regular member of the Facility, Agent member (provided such Agent may submit an application under § 725.17(b)(2)(iv) of this part), or a member natural person credit union) which does not meet the Facility's creditworthiness standards may be limited in or denied the use of advances for its liquidity needs.



---

[N] [44 FR 49437, Aug. 23, 1979, as amended at 69 FR 27829, May 17, 2004; 76 FR 60367, Sept. 29, 2011; 85 FR 23736, Apr. 29, 2020; 85 FR 62213, Oct. 2, 2020; 86 FR 15572, Mar. 24, 2021]




