# § 63.3   Definitions.

*Bureau* means the Bureau of Indian Affairs of the Department of the Interior; 


*Child* means an individual who is not married, and has not attained 18 years of age. 


*Child abuse* includes but is not limited to any case in which a child is dead, or exhibits evidence of skin bruising, bleeding, malnutrition, failure to thrive, burns, fracture of any bone, subdural hematoma, or soft tissue swelling, and this condition is not justifiably explained or may not be the product of an accidental occurrence; and any case in which a child is subjected to sexual assault, sexual molestation, sexual exploitation, sexual contact, or prostitution. 


*Child neglect* includes but is not limited to, negligent treatment or maltreatment of a child by a person, including a person responsible for the child's welfare, under circumstances which indicate that the child's health or welfare is harmed or threatened. 


*Crimes against persons* are defined by local law. Adjudicating officers must contact local law enforcement agencies to determine if the crime for which an applicant or employee was found guilty (or entered a plea of nolo contendere or guilty) is defined as a crime against persons. 


*Family violence* means any act, or threatened act, of violence, including any forceful detention of an individual, which results, or threatens to result, in physical or mental injury, and is committed by an individual against another individual to whom such person is, or was, related by blood or marriage or otherwise legally related, or with whom such person is, or was, residing, or with whom such person has, or had, intimate or continuous social contact and household access. 


*Indian* means any individual who is a member of an Indian tribe. 


*Indian child* means any unmarried person who is under age eighteen and is either a member of an Indian tribe or eligible for membership in an Indian tribe and is the biological child of a member of an Indian tribe. 


*Indian country* means: 


(1) All land within the limits of any Indian reservation under the jurisdiction of the United States Government, notwithstanding the issuance of any patent, and, including rights-of-way running through the reservation; 


(2) All dependent Indian communities within the borders of the United States whether within the original or subsequently acquired territory thereof; and, 


(3) All Indian allotments, the Indian titles to which have not been extinguished, including rights-of-way running through the same. Unless otherwise indicated, the term “Indian country” is used instead of “Indian reservation” for consistency. 


*Indian reservation* means any Indian reservation, public domain Indian allotment, former Indian reservation in Oklahoma, or lands held by incorporated Native groups, regional corporations, or village corporations under the provisions of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 *et seq.*). 


*Indian tribe* means any Indian tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community, including any Alaska Native village or regional or village corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 *et seq.*) which is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians. 


*Inter-tribal consortium* means a partnership between an Indian tribe or tribal organization of an Indian tribe, and one or more Indian tribes or tribal organizations of one or more Indian tribes. 


*Local child protective services agency* is an agency of the Federal Government, state, or Indian tribe that has the primary responsibility for child protection on any Indian reservation, or within any community in Indian country. 


*Local law enforcement agency* is that Federal, tribal, or state law enforcement agency that has primary responsibility for the investigation of an instance of alleged child abuse within the involved Indian jurisdiction. 


*Must* is used in place of shall and indicates a mandatory or imperative act or requirement. 


*Offenses committed against children* means any felonious or misdemeanor crime under Federal, State, or Tribal law committed against a victim that has not attained the age of eighteen years. In determining whether a crime falls within this category, the applicable Federal, State, or Tribal law under which the individual was convicted or pleaded guilty or nolo contendere is controlling.


*Person responsible for a child's welfare* is any person who has legal or other recognized duty for the care and safety of a child, and may include any employee or volunteer of a children's residential facility, and any person providing out-of-home care, education, or services to children. 


*Related assistance* means the counseling and self-help services for abusers, victims, and dependents in family violence situations; referrals for appropriate health-care services (including alcohol and drug abuse treatment); and may include food, clothing, child care, transportation, and emergency services for victims of family violence and their dependents. 


*Secretary* means the Secretary of the Interior. 


*Service* means the Indian Health Service of the Department of Health and Human Services. 


*Shelter* means the temporary refuge and related assistance in compliance with applicable Federal and tribal laws and regulations governing the provision, on a regular basis, of shelter, safe homes, meals, and related assistance to victims of family violence or their dependents. 


*Tribal organization* means the recognized governing body of any Indian tribe; any legally established organization of Indians which is controlled, sanctioned, or chartered by such governing body or which is democratically elected by the adult members of the Indian community to be served by such organization and which includes the maximum participation of Indians in all phases of its activities: *Provided,* That in any case where a contract is let, a grant is awarded, or funding agreement is made to an organization to perform services benefitting more than one Indian tribe, the approval of each such Indian tribe must be a prerequisite to the letting or making of such contract, grant, or funding agreement.



---

[N] [61 FR 32274, June 21, 1996, as amended at 85 FR 37564, June 23, 2020]




