# § 917.21   Approval of Kentucky abandoned mine land reclamation plan amendments.

(a) The Kentucky Amendment, submitted to OSM on December 8, 1982, is approved. You may receive a copy from:


(1) Commonwealth of Kentucky, Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Cabinet, Division of Abandoned Lands, 618 Teton Trail, Frankfort, Kentucky 40601; or


(2) Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Lexington Field Office, 2675 Regency Road, Lexington, Kentucky 40503-2922.


(b) The Kentucky Abandoned Mine Reclamation Amendment, submitted to OSM on March 25, 1985, is approved. Copies may be obtained at the addresses listed in paragraph (a) of this section.


(c) The following is a list of the dates amendments were submitted to OSM, the dates when the Director's decision approving all, or portions of these amendments, were published in the _Federal Register_ and the State citations or a brief description of each amendment. The amendments in this table are listed in order of the date of final publication in the _Federal Register._

(d) The Kentucky Abandoned Mine Land Reclamation Plan amendment, submitted to OSM on April 29, 2002, is approved with the following exceptions. The word “or,” which appears at the end of paragraph 1 of the section entitled “Lands for Permanent Facilities,” is not approved. We are approving the State of Kentucky's incorporation by reference of the Federal AML Enhancement Rule into their regulations. This approval is subject to the restrictions placed upon the Federal regulation by the court in *Kentucky Resources Council* v. *Norton,* 2002 U.S. App. Lexis 11365, Slip. Op. at 5. (D.C. Cir. May 30, 2002) The “Reclamation Agreements” provision at the end of Chapter 12 only applies to AML reclamation projects authorized through the Federal AML grant process. Copies may be obtained at the address listed in (a)(2) of this section for OSM or the Commonwealth of Kentucky, Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Cabinet, Division of Abandoned Mine Lands, 2521 Old Lawrenceburg Road, Frankfort, Kentucky 40601.


(e) The Kentucky AMLR Plan amendment submitted on April 23, 2007, and consisting of revisions to KRS Chapter 350 that correspond to changes to the Federal Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 resulting from the Relief and Health Care Act of 2006, is approved.



---

[N] [62 FR 9943, Mar. 5, 1997, as amended at 68 FR 65843, Nov. 24, 2003; 72 FR 59479, Oct. 22, 2007]




