# § 404.1068   Employees who are considered self-employed.

(a) *General.* Although we generally exclude services performed by employees from the definition of trade or business, certain types of services are considered a trade or business even though performed by employees. If you perform any of the services described in paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section, you are self-employed for social security purposes. Certain other services described in § 404.1071 (relating to ministers and members of religious orders) and § 404.1073 (relating to certain public officers) may be considered a trade or business even though performed by employees.


(b) *Newspaper vendors.* If you have attained age 18 and perform services as a newspaper vendor that are described in § 404.1030(b), you are engaged in a trade or business.


(c) *Sharefarmers.* If you perform services as a sharefarmer that are described in § 404.1017, you are engaged in a trade or business.


(d) *Employees of a foreign government, an instrumentality wholly owned by a foreign government, or an international organization.* If you are a United States citizen and perform the services that are described in § 404.1032, § 404.1033(a), or § 404.1034(a), you are engaged in a trade or business if the services are performed in the United States and are not covered as employment based upon § 404.1034(c).


(e) *Certain fishermen.* If you perform services as a fisherman that are described in § 404.1031, you are engaged in a trade or business.


(f) *Employees of a church or church-controlled organization that has elected to exclude employees from coverage as employment.* If you perform services that are excluded from employment as described in § 404.1026, you are engaged in a trade or business. Special rules apply to your earnings from those services which are known as church employee income. If you are paid $100 or more in a taxable year by an employer who has elected to have its employees excluded, those earnings are self-employment income (see § 404.1096(c)(1)). In figuring your church employee income you may not reduce that income by any deductions attributable to your work. Your church employee income and deductions may not be taken into account in determining the amount of other net earnings from self-employment. Effective for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 1990, your church employee income is exempt from self-employment tax under the conditions set forth for members of certain religious groups (see § 404.1075).



---

[N] [45 FR 20075, Mar. 27, 1980, as amended at 50 FR 36574, Sept. 9, 1985; 58 FR 64889, Dec. 10, 1993; 61 FR 38367, July 24, 1996]




