# § 447.11   Meaning of terms.

When used in this part and in forms prescribed under this part, where not otherwise distinctly expressed or manifestly incompatible with the intent thereof, terms shall have the meanings ascribed in this section. Words in the plural form shall include the singular, and vice versa, and words imparting the masculine gender shall include the feminine. The terms “includes” and “including” do not exclude other things not enumerated which are in the same general class or are otherwise within the scope thereof.


*Appropriate ATF officer.* An officer or employee of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives (ATF) specified by ATF Order 1130.34, Delegation of the Director's Authorities in 27 CFR Part 447, Importation of Arms, Ammunition and Implements of War. 


*Article.* Any of the defense articles enumerated in the U.S. Munitions Import List (USMIL).


*Bureau.* Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, the Department of Justice.


*Carbine.* A short-barrelled rifle whose barrel is generally not longer than 22 inches and is characterized by light weight.


*CFR.* The Code of Federal Regulations.


*Chemical agent.* A substance useful in war which, by its ordinary and direct chemical action, produces a powerful physiological effect.


*Defense articles.* Any item designated in § 447.21 or § 447.22. This term includes models, mockups, and other such items which reveal technical data directly relating to § 447.21 or § 447.22. 


*Defense services.* (a) The furnishing of assistance, including training, to foreign persons in the design, engineering, development, production, processing, manufacture, use, operation, overhaul, repair, maintenance, modification, or reconstruction of defense articles, whether in the United States or abroad; or


(b) The furnishing to foreign persons of any technical data, whether in the United States or abroad.


*Director.* The Director, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, the Department of Justice, Washington, DC 20226.


*Executed under the penalties of perjury.* Signed with the prescribed declaration under the penalties of perjury as provided on or with respect to the application, form, or other document or, where no form of declaration is prescribed, with the declaration: “I declare under the penalties of perjury that this ______ (insert type of document such as statement, certificate, application, or other document), including the documents submitted in support thereof, has been examined by me and, to best of my knowledge and belief, is true, correct, and complete.”


*Firearms.* A weapon, and all components and parts therefor, not over .50 caliber which will or is designed to or may be readily converted to expel a projectile by the action of an explosive, but shall not include BB and pellet guns, and muzzle loading (black powder) firearms (including any firearm with a matchlock, flintlock, percussion cap, or similar type of ignition system) or firearms covered by Category I(a) established to have been manufactured in or before 1898.


*Frame or receiver.* The term “frame or receiver” shall have the same meaning as in 27 CFR 478.12.


*Import or importation.* Bringing into the United States from a foreign country any of the articles on the Import List, but shall not include intransit, temporary import or temporary export transactions subject to Department of State controls under Title 22, Code of Federal Regulations.


*Import List.* The list of articles contained in § 447.21 and identified therein as “The U.S. Munitions Import List”.


*Machinegun.* A “machinegun”, “machine pistol”, “submachinegun”, or “automatic rifle” is a firearm which shoots, is designed to shoot, or can be readily restored to shoot, automatically more than one shot, without manual reloading, by a single function of the trigger. The term shall also include the frame or receiver of any such weapon, any part designed and intended solely and exclusively, or combination of parts designed and intended, for use in converting a weapon into a machinegun, and any combination of parts from which a machinegun can be assembled if such parts are in the possession or under the control of a person. For purposes of this definition, the term “automatically” as it modifies “shoots, is designed to shoot, or can be readily restored to shoot,” means functioning as the result of a self-acting or self-regulating mechanism that allows the firing of multiple rounds through a single function of the trigger; and “single function of the trigger” means a single pull of the trigger and analogous motions. The term “machinegun” includes a bump-stock-type device, *i.e.,* a device that allows a semi-automatic firearm to shoot more than one shot with a single pull of the trigger by harnessing the recoil energy of the semi-automatic firearm to which it is affixed so that the trigger resets and continues firing without additional physical manipulation of the trigger by the shooter.


*Permit.* The same as “license” for purposes of 22 U.S.C. 1934(c).


*Person.* A partnership, company, association, or corporation, as well as a natural person.


*Pistol.* A hand-operated firearm having a chamber integral with, or permanently aligned with, the bore.


*Privately made firearm.* The term “privately made firearm” shall have the same meaning as in 27 CFR 478.11.


*Revolver.* A hand-operated firearm with a revolving cylinder containing chambers for individual cartridges.


*Rifle.* A shoulder firearm discharging bullets through a rifled barrel at least 16 inches in length, including combination and drilling guns.


*Sporting type sight including optical.* A telescopic sight suitable for daylight use on a rifle, shotgun, pistol, or revolver for hunting or target shooting.


*This chapter.* Title 27, Code of Federal Regulations, Chapter II (27 CFR Chapter II).


*United States.* When used in the geographical sense, includes the several States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the insular possessions of the United States, the District of Columbia, and any territory over which the United States exercises any powers of administration, legislation, and jurisdiction.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-48, 43 FR 13535, Mar. 31, 1978; 44 FR 55840, Sept. 28, 1979, as amended by T.D. ATF-202, 50 FR 14382, Apr. 12, 1985; T.D. ATF-215, 50 FR 42158, Oct. 18, 1985; T.D. ATF-484, 67 FR 64526, Oct. 21, 2002; ATF-9F, 72 FR 72938, Dec. 26, 2007; ATF-50F, 78 FR 23677, Apr. 22, 2013; ATF 2013R-9F, 79 FR 46692, Aug. 11, 2014; ATF 2018R-22F, 83 FR 66553, Dec. 26, 2018; ATF-2021R-05F, 87 FR 24734, Apr. 26, 2022]




