# ยง 303.44   Public notice requirements.

(a) *Newspaper publications.* For applications to establish or relocate a branch, a notice as described in ยง 303.7(c) shall be published once in a newspaper of general circulation. For applications to relocate a main office, notice shall be published at least once each week on the same day for two consecutive weeks. The required publication shall be made in the following communities: 


(1) *To establish a branch.* In the community in which the main office is located and in the communities to be served by the branch (including messenger services and mobile branches). 


(2) *To relocate a main office.* In the community in which the main office is currently located and in the community to which it is proposed the main office will relocate. 


(3) *To relocate a branch.* In the community in which the branch is located. 


(b) *Public comments.* Comments by interested parties must be received by the appropriate regional director within 15 days after the date of the last newspaper publication required by paragraph (a) of this section, unless the comment period has been extended or reopened in accordance with ยง 303.9(b)(2). 


(c) *Lobby notices.* In the case of applications to relocate a main office or a branch, a copy of the required newspaper publication shall be posted in the public lobby of the office to be relocated for at least 15 days beginning on the date of the last published notice required by paragraph (a) of this section. 




