# ยง 25.10   Hearings and hearing request.

(a) *Hearing request.* A mortgagee subject to any administrative action under 12 U.S.C. 1708(c), except for a letter of reprimand, may request a hearing, which shall be held on the record before an administrative law judge. The mortgagee shall submit its request for a hearing within 30 days of receiving the Board's notice of administrative action. The request shall be addressed to the Mortgagee Review Board Docket Clerk, Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 7th Street, SW., Washington, DC 20410. The request shall specifically respond to the violations set forth in the notice of administrative action. If the mortgagee fails to request a hearing within 30 days after receiving the notice of administrative action, the Board's action shall become final.


(b) *Hearing by Administrative Law Judge.* Hearings are to be conducted by an Administrative Law Judge (ALJ), as set forth in this part. The ALJ shall commence a de novo hearing within 30 days of HUD's receipt of the mortgagee's request, unless the mortgagee moves for an extension of time. The ALJ may extend this time period for good cause.


(c) *Procedural rules.* The hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of 24 CFR part 26, with the following modifications:


(1) The mortgagee or its representative shall be afforded an opportunity to appear, submit documentary evidence, present witnesses, and confront any witness the agency presents, except that the parties shall not be allowed to present members of the Board as witnesses.


(2) Discovery of information and/or documents that do not pertain to the appealing mortgagee, including, but not limited to, reviews or audits by the Department or administrative actions by the Board against mortgagees other than the appealing mortgagee, shall not be permitted. Members of the Board shall not be subject to deposition.


(3) The hearing shall generally be held in Washington, DC. However, upon a showing of undue hardship or other cause, the ALJ may, in his or her discretion, order the hearing to be held in a location other than Washington, DC.



---

[N] [73 FR 60542, Oct. 10, 2008]




