# § 422.108   Medicare secondary payer (MSP) procedures.

(a) *Basic rule.* CMS does not pay for services to the extent that Medicare is not the primary payer under section 1862(b) of the Act and part 411 of this chapter.


(b) *Responsibilities of the MA organization.* The MA organization must, for each MA plan—


(1) Identify payers that are primary to Medicare under section 1862(b) of the Act and part 411 of this chapter;


(2) Identify the amounts payable by those payers; and


(3) Coordinate its benefits to Medicare enrollees with the benefits of the primary payers, including reporting, on an ongoing basis, information obtained related to requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section in accordance with CMS instructions.


(c) *Collecting from other entities.* The MA organization may bill, or authorize a provider to bill, other individuals or entities for covered Medicare services for which Medicare is not the primary payer, as specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section. 


(d) *Collecting from other insurers or the enrollee.* If a Medicare enrollee receives from an MA organization covered services that are also covered under State or Federal workers' compensation, any no-fault insurance, or any liability insurance policy or plan, including a self-insured plan, the MA organization may bill, or authorize a provider to bill any of the following— 


(1) The insurance carrier, the employer, or any other entity that is liable for payment for the services under section 1862(b) of the Act and part 411 of this chapter.


(2) The Medicare enrollee, to the extent that he or she has been paid by the carrier, employer, or entity for covered medical expenses.


(e) *Collecting from group health plans (GHPs) and large group health plans (LGHPs).* An MA organization may bill a GHP or LGHP for services it furnishes to a Medicare enrollee who is also covered under the GHP or LGHP and may bill the Medicare enrollee to the extent that he or she has been paid by the GHP or LGHP. 


(f) *MSP rules and State laws.* Consistent with § 422.402 concerning the Federal preemption of State law, the rules established under this section supersede any State laws, regulations, contract requirements, or other standards that would otherwise apply to MA plans. A State cannot take away an MA organization's right under Federal law and the MSP regulations to bill, or to authorize providers and suppliers to bill, for services for which Medicare is not the primary payer. The MA organization will exercise the same rights to recover from a primary plan, entity, or individual that the Secretary exercises under the MSP regulations in subparts B through D of part 411 of this chapter.



---

[N] [63 FR 35077, June 26, 1998, as amended at 65 FR 40320, June 29, 2000; 70 FR 4721, Jan. 28, 2005; 75 FR 19805, Apr. 15, 2010]




