# § 165.913   Security Zone; Burke Lakefront Airport, Lake Erie, Cleveland, OH.

(a) *Location.* This security zone includes all waters extending from the surface to the sea floor within approximately 650 yards seaward from the shoreline of the Burke Lakefront Airport and encompasses all waters in Lake Erie within a line connecting the following geographical positions: 41°31′45″ N, 081°39′20″ W; then extending northwest to 41°32′23″ N, 081°39′46″ W; then extending southwest to 41°31′02″ N, 081°42′10″ W; then extending southwest to the shoreline at 41°30′38″ N, 081°41′53″ W (NAD 83); then following the shoreline back to the point of origin.


(b) *Definitions.* (1) Designated representative means any Coast Guard commissioned, warrant, or petty officers designated by the Captain of the Port Buffalo to monitor a security zone, permit entry into a security zone, give legally enforceable orders to persons or vessels within a security zone, and take other actions authorized by the Captain of the Port Buffalo.


(2) Public vessel means a vessel that is owned, chartered, or operated by the United States, or by a State or political subdivision thereof.


(c) *Regulations.* (1) In accordance with the general regulations in § 165.33 of this part, entry into, transiting, or anchoring within this security zone is prohibited unless authorized by the Captain of the Port Buffalo or her designated on-scene representative.


(2) All persons and vessels must comply with the instructions of the Coast Guard Captain of the Port Buffalo or a designated representative. Upon being hailed by the U.S. Coast Guard by siren, radio, flashing light or other means, the operator of a vessel shall proceed as directed.


(3) All vessels must obtain permission from the Captain of the Port Buffalo or a designated representative to enter, move within, or exit the security zone established in this section when the security zone is enforced. Vessels and persons granted permission to enter the security zone shall obey all lawful orders or directions of the Captain of the Port Buffalo or a designated representative. While within the security zone, all vessels shall operate at the minimum speed necessary to maintain a safe course.


(d) *Notice of Enforcement or Suspension of Enforcement.* The security zone established by this section will be enforced only upon notice of the Captain of the Port Buffalo. The Captain of the Port Buffalo will cause notice of enforcement of the security zone established by this section to be made by all appropriate means to the affected segments of the public including publication in the _Federal Register_ as practicable, in accordance with 33 CFR 165.7(a). Such means of notification may also include, but are not limited to Broadcast Notice to Mariners or Local Notice to Mariners. The Captain of the Port Buffalo will issue a Broadcast Notice to Mariners notifying the public when enforcement of the security zone established by this section is suspended.


(e) *Exemption.* Public vessels as defined in paragraph (b) of this section are exempt from the requirements in this section.


(f) *Waiver.* For any vessel, the Captain of the Port Buffalo or a designated representative may waive any of the requirements of this section, upon finding that operational conditions or other circumstances are such that application of this section is unnecessary or impractical for the purposes of safety or environmental safety.


(g) *Authority.* In addition to 46 U.S.C. 70034 and 46 U.S.C. 70051, the authority for this section includes 46 U.S.C. 70116.



---

[N] [USCG-2019-0213, 84 FR 38137, Aug. 6, 2019]






