# § 301.6059-2   Required use of electronic form for filing requirements relating to periodic report of actuary.

(a) *Electronic-filing requirements under section 6059.* An actuarial report required under section 6059 with respect to an employee benefit plan must be filed electronically if the filer is required by the Internal Revenue Code or regulations to file at least 10 returns during the calendar year that includes the first day of the plan year. The Commissioner may direct the type of electronic filing and may also exempt certain returns from the electronic requirements of this section through revenue procedures, publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance, including postings on the *IRS.gov* website. Actuarial reports filed electronically must be made in accordance with the applicable revenue procedures, publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance.


(b) *Undue hardship.* The Commissioner may waive the requirements of this section in cases of undue economic hardship. One principal factor in determining hardship will be the amount, if any, by which the cost of filing the reports electronically in accordance with this section exceeds the cost of filing the return on paper. A request for a waiver must be made in accordance with applicable IRS revenue procedures, publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance, including postings to the *IRS.gov* website. The waiver request will specify the type of filing (that is, an actuarial report required under 6059) and the period to which it applies.






(c) *Failure to file.* If a filer required to file an actuarial report under section 6059 fails to file the report on magnetic media when required to do so by this section, the filer is deemed to have failed to file the report. See section 6692 for the penalty for the failure to file an actuarial report. In determining whether there is reasonable cause for failure to file the report, § 301.6692-1(c) and rules similar to the rules in § 301.6724-1(c)(3)(ii) (regarding undue economic hardship related to filing information returns on magnetic media) will apply.


(d) *Meaning of terms.* The following definitions apply for purposes of this section.


(1) *Magnetic media or electronic form.* The terms *magnetic media or electronic form* mean any media or form permitted under applicable regulations, revenue procedures, or publications. These generally include electronic filing, as well as magnetic tape, tape cartridge, diskette, and other media specifically permitted under the applicable regulations, procedures, publications, forms, instructions, or other guidance.






(2) *Actuarial report required under section 6059*—(i) *Single employer plans.* For a single employer plan, the term *actuarial report required under section 6059* means the Schedule SB, “Single-Employer Defined Benefit Plan Actuarial Information,” of the Form 5500 series (or its successor).


(ii) *Multiemployer and certain money purchase plans.* For multiemployer and certain money purchase plans, the term *actuarial report required under section 6059* means the Schedule MB, “Multiemployer Defined Benefit Plan and Certain Money Purchase Plan Actuarial Information,” of the Form 5500 series (or its successor).


(3) *Calculating the number of returns*—(i) *In general.* For purposes of this section, a filer is required to file at least 10 returns if, during the calendar year that includes the first day of the plan year, the filer is required to file at least 10 returns of any type, including information returns (or example, Forms W-2 and Forms 1099), income tax returns, employment tax returns, and excise tax returns.




(ii) *Definition of filer.* For purposes of this section, the term *filer* means the plan administrator within the meaning of section 414(g). If the plan administrator within the meaning of section 414(g) is the employer, the special rules in § 1.6058-2(d)(3)(iii) will apply.




(e) *Applicability date.* This section is applicable for actuarial reports required to be filed under section 6059 for plan years that begin on or after January 1, 2024.







---

[N] [T.D. 9695, 79 FR 58260, Sept. 29, 2014, as amended by T.D. 9972, 88 FR 11777, Feb. 23, 2023]




