# § 641.140   What definitions apply to this part?

The following definitions apply to this part:


*At risk for homelessness* means an individual is likely to become homeless and the individual lacks the resources and support networks needed to obtain housing.


*Authorized position level* means the number of SCSEP enrollment opportunities that can be supported for a 12-month period based on the average national unit cost. The authorized position level is derived by dividing the total amount of funds appropriated for a Program Year by the national average unit cost per participant for that Program Year as determined by the Department. The national average unit cost includes all costs of administration, other participant costs, and participant wage and benefit costs as defined in § 506(g) of the OAA.


*Career services* means those services described in sec. 134(c)(2) of WIOA.


*Co-enrollment* applies to any individual who meets the qualifications for SCSEP participation and is also enrolled as a participant in WIOA or another employment and training program, as provided in the Individual Employment Plan (IEP).


*Community service* means:


(1) Social, health, welfare, and educational services (including literacy tutoring), legal and other counseling services and assistance, including tax counseling and assistance and financial counseling, and library, recreational, and other similar services;


(2) Conservation, maintenance, or restoration of natural resources;


(3) Community betterment or beautification;


(4) Antipollution and environmental quality efforts;


(5) Weatherization activities;


(6) Economic development; and


(7) Other such services essential and necessary to the community as the Secretary determines by rule to be appropriate. (OAA § 518(a)(1)).


*Community service assignment* means part-time, temporary employment paid with grant funds in projects at host agencies through which eligible individuals are engaged in community service and receive work experience and job skills that can lead to unsubsidized employment. (OAA § 518(a)(2)).


*Community Service Employment* means part-time, temporary employment paid with grant funds in projects at host agencies through which eligible individuals are engaged in community service and receive work experience and job skills that can lead to unsubsidized employment. (OAA sec. 518(a)(2).) The term community service assignment is used interchangeably with community service employment.


*Core measures* means hours (in the aggregate) of community service employment; the percentage of project participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after exit from the project; the percentage of project participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the fourth quarter after exit from the project; the median earnings of project participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after exit from the project; indicators of effectiveness in serving employers, host agencies, and project participants; the number of eligible individuals served; and most-in-need (the number of individuals described in sec. 518(a)(3)(B)(ii) or (b)(2) of the OAA). (OAA sec. 513(b)(1).)


*Department or DOL* means the United States Department of Labor, including its agencies and organizational units.


*Disability* means a disability attributable to a mental or physical impairment, or a combination of mental and physical impairments, that results in substantial functional limitations in one or more of the following areas of major life activity:


(1) Self-care;


(2) Receptive and expressive language;


(3) Learning;


(4) Mobility;


(5) Self-direction;


(6) Capacity for independent living;


(7) Economic self-sufficiency;


(8) Cognitive functioning; and


(9) Emotional adjustment. (42 U.S.C. 3002(13)).


*Equitable distribution report* means a report based on the latest available Census or other reliable data, which lists the optimum number of participant positions in each designated area in the State, and the number of authorized participant positions each grantee serves in that area, taking into account the needs of underserved counties and incorporated cities as necessary. This report provides a basis for improving the distribution of SCSEP positions.


*Formerly incarcerated individuals* mean:


(1) Individuals who were incarcerated at any point within the last 5 years; or


(2) Individuals who were under supervision at any point within the last 5 years, following release from prison or jail.


(3) The 5-year period specified in this definition refers to the 5 years preceding the date of first determination of program eligibility, as described in § 641.505, for initial enrollment into the program.


*Frail* means an individual 55 years of age or older who is determined to be functionally impaired because the individual—


(1)(i) Is unable to perform at least two activities of daily living without substantial human assistance, including verbal reminding, physical cueing, or supervision; or


(ii) At the option of the State, is unable to perform at least three such activities without such assistance; or


(2) Due to a cognitive or other mental impairment, requires substantial supervision because the individual behaves in a manner that poses a serious health or safety hazard to the individual or to another individual. (42 U.S.C. 3002(22)).


*Grant period* means the time period between the effective date of the grant award and the ending date of the award, which includes any modifications extending the period of performance, whether by the Department's exercise of options contained in the grant agreement or otherwise. This is also referred to as “project period” or “award period.”


*Grantee* means an entity receiving financial assistance directly from the Department to carry out SCSEP activities. The grantee is the legal entity that receives the award and is legally responsible for carrying out the SCSEP, even if only a particular component of the entity is designated in the grant award document. Grantees include public and nonprofit private agencies and organizations, agencies of a State, tribal organizations, and Territories, that receive SCSEP grants from the Department. (OAA §§ 502(b)(1), 506(a)(2)). As used here, “grantee” includes “grantee” as defined in 29 CFR 97.3 and “recipient” as defined in 29 CFR 95.2(gg).


*Greatest economic need* means the need resulting from an income level at or below the poverty guidelines established by the Department of Health and Human Services and approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB). (42 U.S.C. 3002(23)).


*Greatest social need* means the need caused by non-economic factors, which include: Physical and mental disabilities; language barriers; and cultural, social, or geographical isolation, including isolation caused by racial or ethnic status, which restricts the ability of an individual to perform normal daily tasks or threatens the capacity of the individual to live independently. (42 U.S.C. 3002(24)).


*Homeless* includes:


(1) An individual who lacks a fixed, regular, and adequate nighttime residence; and


(2) An individual who has a primary nighttime residence that is:


(i) A supervised publicly or privately operated shelter designed to provide temporary living accommodations (including welfare hotels, congregate shelters, and transitional housing for the mentally ill);


(ii) An institution that provides a temporary residence for individuals intended to be institutionalized; or


(iii) A public or private place not designed for, or ordinarily used as, regular sleeping accommodations for human beings. (42 U.S.C. 11302(a)).


*Host agency* means a public agency or a private nonprofit organization exempt from taxation under § 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 which provides a training work site and supervision for one or more participants. Political parties cannot be host agencies. A host agency may be a religious organization as long as the projects in which participants are being trained do not involve the construction, operation, or maintenance of any facility used or to be used as a place for sectarian religious instruction or worship. (OAA § 502(b)(1)(D)).


*Indian* means a person who is a member of an Indian tribe. (42 U.S.C. 3002(26)).


*Indian tribe* means any tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community of Indians (including Alaska Native village or regional or village corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, 43 U.S.C. 1601 *et seq.*) which: (1) Is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians; or (2) is located on, or in proximity to, a Federal or State reservation or Rancheria. (42 U.S.C. 3002(27)).


*Individual employment plan (IEP)* means a plan for a participant that is based on an assessment of that participant conducted by the grantee or sub-recipient, or a recent assessment or plan developed by another employment and training program, and a related service strategy. The IEP must include an appropriate employment goal (except that after the first IEP, subsequent IEPs need not contain an employment goal if such a goal is not feasible), objectives that lead to the goal, a timeline for the achievement of the objectives; and be jointly agreed upon with the participant. (OAA § 502(b)(1)(N)).


*Jobs for Veterans Act* means Public Law 107-288 (2002). Section 2(a) of the Jobs for Veterans Act, codified at 38 U.S.C. 4215(a), provides a priority of service for Department of Labor employment and training programs for veterans, and certain spouses of veterans, who otherwise meet the eligibility requirements for participation. Priority is extended to veterans. Priority is also extended to the spouse of a veteran who died of a service-connected disability; the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty who has been listed for a total of more than 90 days as missing in action, captured in the line of duty by a hostile force, or forcibly detained by a foreign government or power; the spouse of any veteran who has a total disability resulting from a service-connected disability; and the spouse of any veteran who died while a disability so evaluated was in existence. (See § 641.520(b)).


*Job ready* refers to individuals who do not require further education or training to perform work that is available in their labor market.


*Limited English proficiency* means individuals who do not speak English as their primary language and who have a limited ability to read, speak, write, or understand English.


*Local Board* means a Local Workforce Development Board established under sec. 107 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act.


*Local Workforce Development Area* or *local area* means an area designated by the Governor of a State under sec. 106 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act.


*Low employment prospects* means the likelihood that an individual will not obtain employment without the assistance of the SCSEP or another workforce development program. Persons with low employment prospects have a significant barrier to employment. Significant barriers to employment may include but are not limited to: Lacking a substantial employment history, basic skills, and/or English-language proficiency; lacking a high school diploma or the equivalent; having a disability; being homeless; or residing in socially and economically isolated rural or urban areas where employment opportunities are limited.


*Low literacy skills* means the individual computes or solves problems, reads, writes, or speaks at or below the 8th grade level or is unable to compute or solve problems, read, write, or speak at a level necessary to function on the job, in the individual's family, or in society.


*Most-in-need* means participants with one or more of the following characteristics (OAA sec. 513(b)(1)(F)):


(1) Have a severe disability;


(2) Are frail;


(3) Are age 75 or older;


(4) Are age-eligible but not receiving benefits under title II of the Social Security Act;


(5) Reside in an area with persistent unemployment and have severely limited employment prospects;


(6) Have limited English proficiency;


(7) Have low literacy skills;


(8) Have a disability;


(9) Reside in a rural area;


(10) Are veterans;


(11) Have low employment prospects;


(12) Have failed to find employment after using services provided under title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act;


(13) Are homeless or at risk for homelessness; or


(14) Are “formerly incarcerated” as defined in this section.


*National grantee* means a public or non-profit private agency or organization, or Tribal organization, that receives a grant under title V of the OAA (42 U.S.C. 3056 *et seq.*) to administer a SCSEP project. (*See* OAA § 506(g)(5)).


*OAA* means the Older Americans Act, 42 U.S.C. 3001 *et seq.,* as amended.


*One-Stop Center* means the One-Stop Center system in a WIOA local area, which must include a comprehensive One-Stop Center through which One-Stop partners provide applicable career services and which provides access to other programs and services carried out by the One-Stop partners. (*See* WIOA sec. 121(e)(2).)


*One-Stop delivery system* means a system under which employment and training programs, services, and activities are available through a network of eligible One-Stop partners, which assures that information about and access to career services are available regardless of where the individuals initially enter the workforce development system. (*See* WIOA sec. 121(e)(2).)


*One-Stop partner* means an entity described in sec. 121(b)(1) of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act, *i.e.,* required partners, or an entity described in sec. 121(b)(2) of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act, *i.e.,* additional partners.


*Other participant (enrollee) costs* means the costs of participant training, including the payment of reasonable costs to instructors, classroom rental, training supplies, materials, equipment, and tuition, and which may be provided before or during a community service assignment, in a classroom setting, or under other appropriate arrangements; job placement assistance, including job development and job search assistance; participant supportive services to enable a participant to successfully participate in a project, including the payment of reasonable costs of transportation, health care and medical services, special job-related or personal counseling, incidentals (such as work shoes, badges, uniforms, eyeglasses, and tools), child and adult care, temporary shelter, and follow-up services; and outreach, recruitment and selection, intake orientation, and assessments. (OAA § 502(c)(6)(A)(ii)-(v)).


*Pacific Island and Asian Americans* means Americans having origins in any of the original peoples of the Far East, Southeast Asia, the Indian Subcontinent, or the Pacific Islands. (OAA sec. 518(a)(6).)


*Participant* means an individual who is determined to be eligible for the SCSEP, is given a community service assignment, and is receiving any service funded by the program as described in subpart E.


*Persistent unemployment* means that the annual average unemployment rate for a county or city is more than 20 percent higher than the national average for two out of the last three years.


*Poor employment prospects* means the significant likelihood that an individual will not obtain employment without the assistance of the SCSEP or another workforce development program. Persons with poor employment prospects have a significant barrier to employment; significant barriers to employment include but are not limited to: lacking a substantial employment history, basic skills, and/or English-language proficiency; lacking a high school diploma or the equivalent; having a disability; being homeless; or residing in socially and economically isolated rural or urban areas where employment opportunities are limited.


*Program operator* means a grantee or sub-recipient that receives SCSEP funds from a SCSEP grantee or a higher-tier SCSEP sub-recipient and performs the following activities for all its participants: Eligibility determination, participant assessment, and development of and placement into community service assignments.


*Program Year* means the one-year period beginning on July 1 and ending on June 30.


*Project* means an undertaking by a grantee or sub-recipient in accordance with a grant or contract agreement that provides service to communities and training and employment opportunities to eligible individuals.


*Recipient* means grantee. As used here, “recipient” includes “recipient” as defined in 29 CFR 95.2(gg) and “grantee” as defined in 29 CFR 97.3.


*Residence* means an individual's declared dwelling place or address as demonstrated by appropriate documentation.


*Rural* means an area not designated as a metropolitan statistical area by the Census Bureau; segments within metropolitan counties identified by codes 4 through 10 in the Rural Urban Commuting Area (RUCA) system; and RUCA codes 2 and 3 for census tracts that are larger than 400 square miles and have population density of less than 30 people per square mile.


*SCSEP* means the Senior Community Service Employment Program authorized under title V of the OAA.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Labor.


*Service area* means the geographic area served by a local SCSEP project in accordance with a grant agreement.


*Severe disability* means a severe, chronic disability attributable to mental or physical impairment, or a combination of mental and physical impairments, that—


(1) Is likely to continue indefinitely; and


(2) Results in substantial functional limitation in 3 or more of the following areas of major life activity:


(i) Self-care;


(ii) Receptive and expressive language;


(iii) Learning;


(iv) Mobility;


(v) Self-direction;


(vi) Capacity for independent living;


(vii) Economic self-sufficiency. (42 U.S.C. 3002(48)).


*Severely limited employment prospects* means the substantial likelihood that an individual will not obtain employment without the assistance of the SCSEP or another workforce development program. Persons with severely limited employment prospects have more than one significant barrier to employment; significant barriers to employment may include but are not limited to: Lacking a substantial employment history, basic skills, and/or English-language proficiency; lacking a high school diploma or the equivalent; having a disability; being homeless; or residing in socially and economically isolated rural or urban areas where employment opportunities are limited.


*State Board* means a State Workforce Development Board established under WIOA sec. 101.


*State grantee* means the entity designated by the Governor, or the highest government official, to enter into a grant with the Department to administer a State or Territory SCSEP project under the OAA. Except as applied to funding distributions under § 506 of the OAA, this definition applies to the 50 States, Puerto Rico, the District of Columbia and the following Territories: Guam, American Samoa, U.S. Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.


*State Plan* means a plan that the Governor, or the highest government official, of a State must submit to the Secretary that outlines a four-year strategy, and describes the planning and implementation process, for the statewide provision of community service employment and other authorized activities for eligible individuals under SCSEP. (*See* § 641.300).


*Sub-recipient* means the legal entity to which a sub-award of financial assistance is made by the grantee (or by a higher-tier sub-recipient), and that is accountable to the grantee for the use of the funds provided. As used here, “sub-recipient” includes “sub-grantee” as defined in 29 CFR 97.3 and “sub-recipient” as defined in 29 CFR 95.2(kk).


*Supportive services* means services, such as transportation, health and medical services, special job-related or personal counseling, incidentals (such as work shoes, badges, uniforms, eye-glasses, and tools), child and adult care, housing, including temporary shelter, follow-up services, and needs-related payments, which are necessary to enable an individual to participate in activities authorized under the SCSEP. (OAA secs. 502(c)(6)(A)(iv) and 518(a)(8).)


*Title V of the OAA* means 42 U.S.C. 3056 *et seq.,* as amended.


*Training services* means those services authorized by WIOA sec. 134(c)(3).


*Tribal organization* means the recognized governing body of any Indian tribe, or any legally established organization of Indians which is controlled, sanctioned, or chartered by such governing body. (42 U.S.C. 3002(54)).


*Unemployed* means an individual who is without a job and who wants and is available for work, including an individual who may have occasional employment that does not result in a constant source of income. (OAA sec. 518(a)(9).)


*Veteran* means an individual who is a “covered person” for purposes of the Jobs for Veterans Act, 38 U.S.C. 4215(a)(1).


*Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA)* means the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act, Public Law 113-128 (July 22, 2014), as amended.


*Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA) regulations* means the regulations in parts 675 through 688 of this chapter, the Wagner-Peyser Act regulations in parts 651 through 654 and part 658 of this chapter, and the regulations implementing WIOA sec. 188 in 29 CFR part 38.



---

[N] [75 FR 53812, Sept. 1, 2010, as amended at 77 FR 4661, Jan. 31, 2012; 82 FR 56880, Dec. 1, 2017; 87 FR 8189, Feb. 14, 2022]




