# § 524.1001   Fluralaner and moxidectin.

(a) *Specifications.* Each milliliter of solution contains 280 milligram (mg) fluralaner and 14 mg moxidectin. Each individually packaged tube contains either 112.5 mg fluralaner and 5.6 mg moxidectin; 250 mg fluralaner and 12.5 mg moxidectin; or 500 mg fluralaner and 25 mg moxidectin.


(b) *Sponsor.* See No. 000061 in § 510.600(c) of this chapter.


(c) *Conditions of use*—(1) *Amount.* Administer topically as a single dose every 2 months to provide a minimum dose of 18.2 mg/lb (40 mg/kg) fluralaner and 0.9 mg/lb (2 mg/kg) moxidectin.




(2) *Indications for use.* For the prevention of heartworm disease caused by *Dirofilaria immitis* and for the treatment of infections with intestinal roundworm (*Toxocara cati,* fourth-stage larvae, immature adults, and adults) and hookworm (*Ancylostoma tubaeforme,* fourth-stage larvae, immature adults, and adults); kills adult fleas and is indicated for the treatment and prevention of flea infestations (*Ctenocephalides felis*) and the treatment and control of tick infestations (*Ixodes scapularis* (black-legged tick), *Dermacentor variabilis* (American dog tick), and *Haemaphysalis longicornis* (Asian longhorned tick)) for 2 months in cats and kittens 6 months of age and older and weighing 2.6 lb or greater.








(3) *Limitations.* Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.



---

[N] [85 FR 18120, Apr. 1, 2020, as amended at 87 FR 58963, Sept. 29, 2022; 88 FR 14901, Mar. 10, 2023]




