# § 413.198   Recordkeeping and cost reporting requirements for outpatient maintenance dialysis.

(a) *Purpose and scope.* This section implements sections 1881(b)(2)(B)(i) and 1881(b)(14) of the Act by specifying recordkeeping and cost reporting requirements for ESRD facilities under part 494 of this chapter. The records and reports will enable CMS to determine the costs incurred in furnishing outpatient maintenance dialysis as defined in § 413.170(a).


(b) *Recordkeeping and reporting requirements.* (1) Each facility must keep adequate records and submit the appropriate CMS-approved cost report in accordance with §§ 413.20 and 413.24, which provide rules on financial data and reports, and adequate cost data and cost finding, respectively.


(2) The cost reimbursement principles set forth in this part (beginning with § 413.134, Depreciation, and excluding the principles listed in paragraph (b)(4) of this section), apply in the determination and reporting of the allowable cost incurred in furnishing outpatient maintenance dialysis treatments to patients dialyzing in the facility, or incurred by the facility in furnishing home dialysis service, supplies, and equipment.


(3) Allowable cost is the reasonable cost related to dialysis treatments. Reasonable cost includes all necessary and proper expenses incurred by the facility in furnishing the dialysis treatments, such as administrative costs, maintenance costs, and premium payments for employee health and pension plans. It includes both direct and indirect costs and normal standby costs. Reasonable cost does not include costs that—


(i) Are not related to patient care for outpatient maintenance dialysis;


(ii) Are for services or items specifically not reimbursable under the program;


(iii) Flow from the provision of luxury items or services (items or services substantially in excess of or more expensive than those generally considered necessary for the provision of needed health services); or


(iv) Are found to be substantially out of line with other institutions in the same area that are similar in size, scope of services, utilization, and other relevant factors.


(4) The following principles of this part do not apply in determining adjustments to allowable costs as reported by ESRD facilities:


(i) Section 413.157, Return on equity capital of proprietary providers;


(ii) Section 413.420, Payment to independent organ procurement organizations and to histocompatibility laboratories for kidney acquisition costs;


(iii) Section 413.9, Cost related to patient care (except for the principles stated in paragraph (b)(3) of this section); and


(iv) Sections 413.64, Payments to providers, and §§ 413.13, 413.30, 413.35, 413.40, 413.74, and §§ 415.55 through 415.70, § 415.162, and § 415.164 of this chapter, Principles of reimbursement for services by hospital-based physicians.


(5) Each ESRD facility must submit data and information of the types and in the formats established by CMS for the purpose of estimating patient-level and facility-level variation in resource use involved in furnishing renal dialysis services. Beginning January 1, 2025, the data and information must include, but is not limited to the following:


(i) Information reported on ESRD prospective payment system (PPS) claims for renal dialysis services regarding the number of minutes between the start and end of hemodialysis treatment, without accounting for any interruptions, received by a beneficiary in center in an ESRD facility;


(ii) Information reported on ESRD PPS claims about the total number of billing units (or the expected number of billing units, for renal dialysis drugs and biological products provided to beneficiaries for use while receiving home dialysis services as defined in § 413.217 of this chapter or oral forms of renal dialysis drugs and biological products), of any discarded amount of a renal dialysis drug or biological product from a single-dose container or single-use package that is paid for under the ESRD PPS, using the JW modifier (or any successor modifier that includes the same data); and


(iii) Information reported on ESRD PPS claims about any renal dialysis drug or biological product from a single-dose container or single-use package that is paid for under the ESRD PPS for which there is no discarded amount (or no discarded amount expected, for renal dialysis drugs and biological products provided to beneficiaries for use while receiving home dialysis services as defined in § 413.217 of this chapter or oral forms of renal dialysis drugs and biological products), using the JZ modifier (or any successor modifier that includes the same data).


(6) Beginning January 1, 2025, each ESRD facility must document in the beneficiary's medical record any discarded amounts of a renal dialysis drug or biological product from a single-dose container or single-use package that is paid for under the ESRD PPS.



---

[N] [62 FR 43668, Aug. 15, 1997, as amended at 73 FR 20474, Apr. 15, 2008; 87 FR 72287, Nov. 23, 2022; 88 FR 76504, Nov. 6, 2023]




