# § 144.42   Combined entry for rewarehouse and withdrawal for consumption.

(a) *Applicability.* If the consignee of merchandise withdrawn for transportation wishes to pay duty and obtain possession of the merchandise immediately upon arrival at destination, he may make a combined entry for rewarehouse and withdrawal for consumption. 


(b) *Procedure for entry.* The procedures set forth in § 144.41 are applicable to this type of entry, with the following exceptions: 


(1) *Form of entry.* A combined entry for rewarehouse and withdrawal for consumption shall be made on Customs Form 7501, or its electronic equivalent, (Consumption Entry), in 4 copies, and shall contain all of the statistical information as provided in § 141.61(e) of this chapter, one copy to be used as the permit. No declaration is required on the entry; 


(2) *Extra copy for Internal Revenue.* An additional copy of Customs Form 7501, or its electronic equivalent marked or stamped “For Internal Revenue Purposes,” shall be presented for each entry of cigars, cigarettes, or cigarette papers or tubes, when the release from Customs custody of those articles is subject to part 275 of the regulations of the Internal Revenue Service (26 CFR part 275) and tax is payable to Customs; and 


(3) *Deposit of duties.* Estimated Customs duties, taxes, and other charges, as set forth in subpart G of part 141 of this chapter, shall be deposited upon presentation of the combined entry. The port director shall then issue a permit for release on Customs Form 7501, or its electronic equivalent. 



---

[N] [T.D. 73-175, 38 FR 17464, July 2, 1973, as amended by T.D. 73-312, 38 FR 30884, Nov. 8, 1973; T.D. 87-75, 52 FR 20068, May 29, 1987; CBP Dec. 15-14, 80 FR 61290, Oct. 13, 2015]




