# § 1455.11   Application procedure.

(a) *Announcement of Program Funding (APF).* The CCC will issue periodic APFs for VPA-HIP on *www.grants.gov* subject to available funding. Unless otherwise specified in the applicable APF, applicants must file an original and one hard copy of the required forms and an application.


(b) *Single application.* A State or tribal government must include all proposed activity under a single application per APF review period. Multiple applications from an applicant during a single APF period will not be considered. The applicant is the individual State or Tribe; any application from any unit of the State or tribal government must be coordinated for a single submission of one application from the State or Tribe.


(c) *Incomplete applications.* Incomplete applications will not be considered for funding. However, incomplete applications may be returned, and may be resubmitted, if time permits.


(d) *Providing data.* Data furnished by grant applicants will be used to determine eligibility for the VPA-HIP benefits. Furnishing the data is voluntary; however, the failure to provide data could result in program benefits being withheld or denied.


(e) *Required forms.* The following forms must be completed, signed, and submitted as part of the application; other forms may be required, as specified in the applicable APF:


(1) Application for Federal Assistance;


(2) Budget Information—Non-Construction Programs; and


(3) Assurances—Non-Construction Programs.


(f) *Application.* Each application must contain the following elements; additional required elements may be specified in the applicable APF:


(1) Title page;


(2) Table of contents;


(3) Executive summary, which includes;


(i) *Activities.* Provide a summary of the application that briefly describes activities proposed to be funded under the grant.


(ii) *Objectives, funding, performance, and other resources.* Include objectives and tasks to be accomplished, the amount of funding requested, how the work will be performed, whether organizational staff, consultants or contractors will be used, and whether other resources will be used;


(4) Eligibility certification that certifies that the applicant is a State or tribal government and the individual submitting the application is acting in a representative capacity on behalf of the State or tribal government;


(5) Application narrative that must include, but is not limited to, the following:


(i) *Project title.* The title of the proposed project must be brief (not to exceed 75 characters) yet describe the essentials of the project.


(ii) *Information sheet.* A separate one-page information sheet listing each of the evaluation criteria referenced in the APF, followed by the page numbers of all relevant material and documentation contained in the application that address or support the criteria.


(iii) *Objectives of the project.* This section must include the following:


(A) A description of how the VPA-HIP funding will be used to encourage public access to private farm, ranch, and forest land for hunting, fishing, and other recreational purposes;


(B) A description of the methods that will be used to achieve the provisions of paragraph (f)(5)(iii)(A) of this section;


(C) A description of how and to what extent the proposed program will meet with widespread acceptance among landowners;


(D) A detailed description of how and to what extent the land enrolled will have appropriate wildlife habitat and how program funds may be used to improve those habitats;


(E) A detailed description of how and to what extent public hunting and other recreational access will be increased on land enrolled under a USDA conservation program, or if conservation program land is not available, specify that there is no impact;


(F) A detailed description of how any additional Federal, State, tribal government, or private resources will be used to carry out grant activities; and


(G) A detailed description of how the public will be made aware of the location of the land enrolled.


(iv) *Work plan.* Applications must discuss the specific tasks to be completed using grant and matching funds. The work plan should show how customers will be identified, key personnel to be involved with administration of the grant, and the evaluation methods to be used to determine the success of specific tasks and overall objectives of a VPA-HIP grant. The budget must present a breakdown of the estimated costs associated with VPA-HIP activities and allocate these costs to each of the tasks to be undertaken. Additional funds from Federal, State, tribal government, or private resources as well as grant funds and resources provided in kind must be accounted for in the budget.


(H) A description on how this will create a new program or enhance an existing program.


(v) *Performance evaluation criteria.* Applications should discuss how the State or tribal government will evaluate whether the program for which the grant is being sought will meet the stated goals for the State or tribal program, including but not limited to landowner and recreationist participation, outreach, and cost-effectiveness.


(vii) *Other similar efforts.* The applicant must describe its previous accomplishments and outcomes in public access activities, if any.


(viii) *Qualifications of personnel.* Applicants must describe the qualifications of personnel expected to perform key tasks, and whether these personnel are to be full- or part-time employees or contract personnel.



---

[N] [75 FR 39140, July 8, 2010, as amended at 79 FR 44641, Aug. 1, 2014]




