# § 1777.12   Public infrastructure—Eligibility.

(a) The provisions of paragraphs (a)(1), (2), and (3) of this section apply to applications submitted by all eligible entities except for Colonias. The facility financed under this part must provide water and/or waste disposal services to rural areas where, on the date the application is received by the Agency, the:


(1) Per capita income of the residents is not more than 70 percent of the most recently USDA implemented national average per capita income, as determined by 5-year income data from the United States Department of Commerce, United States Census Bureau, ACS or, if needed, other Census Bureau data. If the RUS Assistant Administrator for Water and Environmental Program (WEP) has reason to believe that the ACS or other Census Bureau data does not accurately represent the per capita income of the residents, the reasons will be documented and the applicant may furnish, or the Agency may obtain, additional information regarding such per capita income data. Information must consist of reliable data from local, regional, state, Tribal or Federal sources or from a survey conducted by a reliable impartial source, and,


(2) Unemployment rate of the residents is not less than 125 percent of the most recent national average unemployment rate, as determined by the Bureau of Labor Statistics.


(3) Projects for which the applicant is not a Federally Recognized Tribe, but which will benefit Tribal members, may be considered eligible for funds under this part if the applicant provides acceptable documentation and certifies that more than 50 percent of the users in the project service area are members of Tribes. In such cases, funds awarded under this part cannot exceed the applicable percentage of the total eligible project cost. If the applicant is not a Tribe, the applicant must solicit a resolution or letter of consent in support of the application from the benefiting Tribe.


(b) Residents of the rural area to be served must be experiencing a significant health risk due to the fact that a significant proportion of the community's residents do not have access to, or are not served by, adequate, affordable, water supply systems and/or waste disposal facilities. The Agency's records must clearly document and support this determination. The following requirements regarding the documentation must be followed:


(1) The originating documentation must come from an independent third-party source that has the experience in specifying the health or sanitary problem that currently exists.


(2) The documentation must state specifically the health or sanitary problems that exist. General statements of problems or support for the project are not acceptable.


(3) Current users of the facility, and not future or possible users, must be experiencing the current health or sanitary problem.


(4) If no facility exists, documentation must include specific health and sanitary problems associated with individual facilities that currently exist to warrant the health and sanitary determination.


(5) In instances where eligible applicants are proposing to finance water or waste disposal infrastructure improvements addressing health and sanitary problems and that will help alleviate overcrowding or lack of housing, the applicant must provide adequate plans that reasonably demonstrate that the new housing development will be fully financed and will be completed once the infrastructure is completed.






