# § 63.694   Testing methods and procedures.

(a) This section specifies the testing methods and procedures required for this subpart to perform the following: 


(1) To determine the average VOHAP concentration for off-site material streams at the point-of-delivery for compliance with standards specified § 63.683 of this subpart, the testing methods and procedures are specified in paragraph (b) of this section. 


(2) To determine the average VOHAP concentration for treated off-site material streams at the point-of-treatment for compliance with standards specified § 63.684 of this subpart, the testing methods and procedures are specified in paragraph (c) of this section. 


(3) To determine the treatment process VOHAP concentration limit (C_R_) for compliance with standards specified § 63.684 of this subpart, the testing methods and procedures are specified in paragraph (d) of this section. 


(4) To determine treatment process required HAP removal rate (RMR) for compliance with standards specified § 63.684 of this subpart, the testing methods and procedures are specified in paragraph (e) of this section. 


(5) To determine treatment process actual HAP removal rate (MR) for compliance with standards specified § 63.684 of this subpart, the testing methods and procedures are specified in paragraph (f) of this section. 


(6) To determine treatment process required HAP reduction efficiency (R) for compliance with standards specified in § 63.684 of this subpart, the testing methods and procedures are specified in paragraph (g) of this section. 


(7) To determine treatment process required HAP biodegradation efficiency (R_bio_) for compliance with standards specified in § 63.684 of this subpart, the testing methods and procedures are specified in paragraph (h) of this section. 


(8) To determine treatment process required actual HAP mass removal rate (MR_bio_) for compliance with standards specified in§ 63.684 of this subpart, the testing methods and procedures are specified in paragraph (i) of this section. 


(9) To determine maximum organic HAP vapor pressure of off-site materials in tanks for compliance with the standards specified in § 63.685 of this subpart, the testing methods and procedures are specified in paragraph (j) of this section. 


(10) To determine no detectable organic emissions, the testing methods and procedures are specified in paragraph (k) of this section. 


(11) To determine closed-vent system and control device performance for compliance with the standards specified in § 63.693 of this subpart, the testing methods and procedures are specified in paragraph (l) of this section. 


(12) To determine process vent stream flow rate and total organic HAP concentration for compliance with the standards specified in § 63.693 of this subpart, the testing methods and procedures are specified in paragraph (m) of this section.


(b) Testing methods and procedures to determine average VOHAP concentration of an off-site material stream at the point-of-delivery. 


(1) The average VOHAP concentration of an off-site material at the point-of-delivery shall be determined using either direct measurement as specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section or by knowledge as specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. 


(2) *Direct measurement to determine VOHAP concentration*—(i) *Sampling.* Samples of the off-site material stream shall be collected from the container, pipeline, or other device used to deliver the off-site material stream to the plant site in a manner such that volatilization of organics contained in the sample is minimized and an adequately representative sample is collected and maintained for analysis by the selected method. 


(A) The averaging period to be used for determining the average VOHAP concentration for the off-site material stream on a mass-weighted average basis shall be designated and recorded. The averaging period can represent any time interval that the owner or operator determines is appropriate for the off-site material stream but shall not exceed 1 year. 


(B) A sufficient number of samples, but no less than four samples, shall be collected to represent the complete range of HAP compositions and HAP quantities that occur in the off-site material stream during the entire averaging period due to normal variations in the operating conditions for the source or process generating the off-site material stream. Examples of such normal variations are seasonal variations in off-site material quantity or fluctuations in ambient temperature. 


(C) All samples shall be collected and handled in accordance with written procedures prepared by the owner or operator and documented in a site sampling plan. This plan shall describe the procedure by which representative samples of the off-site material stream are collected such that a minimum loss of organics occurs throughout the sample collection and handling process and by which sample integrity is maintained. A copy of the written sampling plan shall be maintained on-site in the plant site operating records. An example of an acceptable sampling plan includes a plan incorporating sample collection and handling procedures in accordance with the requirements specified in “Test Methods for Evaluating Solid Waste, Physical/Chemical Methods,” EPA Publication No. SW-846 or Method 25D in 40 CFR part 60, appendix A. 


(ii) *Analysis.* Each collected sample must be prepared and analyzed in accordance with one of the following methods as applicable to the sampled off-site material for the purpose of measuring the HAP listed in Table 1 of this subpart:


(A) Method 305 in 40 CFR part 63, appendix A.


(B) Method 25D in 40 CFR part 60, appendix A.


(C) Method 624 in 40 CFR part 136, appendix A. If this method is used to analyze one or more compounds that are not on the method's published list of approved compounds, the Alternative Test Procedure specified in 40 CFR 136.4 and 40 CFR 136.5 must be followed.


(D) Method 625 in 40 CFR part 136, appendix A. For the purpose of using this method to comply with this subpart, the owner or operator must perform corrections to these compounds based on the “accuracy as recovery” using the factors in Table 7 of the method. If this method is used to analyze one or more compounds that are not on the method's published list of approved compounds, the Alternative Test Procedure specified in 40 CFR 136.4 and 40 CFR 136.5 must be followed.


(E) Method 1624 in 40 CFR part 136, appendix A.


(F) Method 1625 in 40 CFR part 136, appendix A.


(G) Method 8260 in “Test Methods for Evaluating Solid Waste, Physical/Chemical Methods,” EPA Publication No. SW-846, Third Edition, September 1986, as amended by Update I, November 15, 1992. As an alternative, an owner or operator may use any more recent, updated version of Method 8260 approved by the EPA. For the purpose of using Method 8260 to comply with this subpart, the owner or operator must maintain a formal quality assurance program consistent with section 8 of Method 8260, and this program must include the following elements related to measuring the concentrations of volatile compounds:


(*1*) Documentation of site-specific procedures to minimize the loss of compounds due to volatilization, biodegradation, reaction, or sorption during the sample collection, storage, and preparation steps.


(*2*) Documentation of specific quality assurance procedures followed during sampling, sample preparation, sample introduction, and analysis.


(*3*) Measurement of the average accuracy and precision of the specific procedures, including field duplicates and field spiking of the off-site material source before or during sampling with compounds having similar chemical characteristics to the target analytes.


(H) Method 8270 in “Test Methods for Evaluating Solid Waste, Physical/Chemical Methods,” EPA Publication No. SW-846, Third Edition, September 1986, as amended by Update I, November 15, 1992. As an alternative, an owner or operator may use any more recent, updated version of Method 8270 approved by the EPA. For the purpose of using Method 8270 to comply with this subpart, the owner or operator must maintain a formal quality assurance program consistent with Method 8270, and this program must include the following elements related to measuring the concentrations of volatile compounds:


(*1*) Documentation of site-specific procedures to minimize the loss of compounds due to volatilization, biodegradation, reaction, or sorption during the sample collection, storage, and preparation steps.


(*2*) Documentation of specific quality assurance procedures followed during sampling, sample preparation, sample introduction, and analysis.


(*3*) Measurement of the average accuracy and precision of the specific procedures, including field duplicates and field spiking of the off-site material source before or during sampling with compounds having similar chemical characteristics to the target analytes.


(I) Any other analysis method that has been validated in accordance with the procedures specified in section 5.1 and section 5.3 and the corresponding calculations in section 6.1 or section 6.3 of Method 301 in appendix A in 40 CFR part 63. The data are acceptable if they meet the criteria specified in section 6.1.5 or section 6.3.3 of Method 301. If correction is required under section 6.3.3 of Method 301, the data are acceptable if the correction factor is within the range of 0.7 to 1.30. Other sections of Method 301 are not required.


(iii) *Calculations.* The average VOHAP concentration (C) on a mass-weighted basis shall be calculated by using the results for all samples analyzed in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section and the following equation. An owner or operator using a test method that provides species-specific chemical concentrations may adjust the measured concentrations to the corresponding concentration values which would be obtained had the off-site material samples been analyzed using Method 305. To adjust these data, the measured concentration for each individual HAP chemical species contained in the off-site material is multiplied by the appropriate species-specific adjustment factor (f_m305_) listed in Table 1 of this subpart. 


(3) Knowledge of the off-site material to determine VOHAP concentration. 


(i) Documentation shall be prepared that presents the information used as the basis for the owner's or operator's knowledge of the off-site material stream's average VOHAP concentration. Examples of information that may be used as the basis for knowledge include: material balances for the source or process generating the off-site material stream; species-specific chemical test data for the off-site material stream from previous testing that are still applicable to the current off-site material stream; previous test data for other locations managing the same type of off-site material stream; or other knowledge based on information in documents such as manifests, shipping papers, or waste certification notices.


(ii) If test data are used as the basis for knowledge, then the owner or operator shall document the test method, sampling protocol, and the means by which sampling variability and analytical variability are accounted for in the determination of the average VOHAP concentration. For example, an owner or operator may use HAP concentration test data for the off-site material stream that are validated in accordance with Method 301 in 40 CFR part 63, appendix A of this part as the basis for knowledge of the off-site material. 


(iii) An owner or operator using species-specific chemical concentration test data as the basis for knowledge of the off-site material may adjust the test data to the corresponding average VOHAP concentration value which would be obtained had the off-site material samples been analyzed using Method 305. To adjust these data, the measured concentration for each individual HAP chemical species contained in the off-site material is multiplied by the appropriate species-specific adjustment factor (f_m305_) listed in Table 1 of this subpart. 


(iv) In the event that the Administrator and the owner or operator disagree on a determination of the average VOHAP concentration for an off-site material stream using knowledge, then the results from a determination of VOHAP concentration using direct measurement as specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall be used to establish compliance with the applicable requirements of this subpart. The Administrator may perform or require that the owner or operator perform this determination using direct measurement.


(c) Determination of average VOHAP concentration of an off-site material stream at the point-of-treatment.


(1) *Sampling.* Samples of the off-site material stream shall be collected at the point-of-treatment in a manner such that volatilization of organics contained in the sample is minimized and an adequately representative sample is collected and maintained for analysis by the selected method.


(i) The averaging period to be used for determining the average VOHAP concentration for the off-site material stream on a mass-weighted average basis shall be designated and recorded. The averaging period can represent any time interval that the owner or operator determines is appropriate for the off-site material stream but shall not exceed 1 year.


(ii) A sufficient number of samples, but no less than four samples, shall be collected to represent the complete range of HAP compositions and HAP quantities that occur in the off-site material stream during the entire averaging period due to normal variations in the operating conditions for the treatment process. Examples of such normal variations are seasonal variations in off-site material quantity or fluctuations in ambient temperature.


(iii) All samples shall be collected and handled in accordance with written procedures prepared by the owner or operator and documented in a site sampling plan. This plan shall describe the procedure by which representative samples of the off-site material stream are collected such that a minimum loss of organics occurs throughout the sample collection and handling process and by which sample integrity is maintained. A copy of the written sampling plan shall be maintained on-site in the plant site operating records. An example of an acceptable sampling plan includes a plan incorporating sample collection and handling procedures in accordance with the requirements specified in “Test Methods for Evaluating Solid Waste, Physical/Chemical Methods,” EPA Publication No. SW-846 or Method 25D in 40 CFR part 60, appendix A.


(2) *Analysis.* Each collected sample must be prepared and analyzed in accordance with one of the methods specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(ii)(A) through (b)(2)(ii)(I) of this section, as applicable to the sampled off-site material, for the purpose of measuring the HAP listed in Table 1 of this subpart.


(3) *Calculations.* The average VOHAP concentration (C
) a mass-weighted basis shall be calculated by using the results for all samples analyzed in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section and the following equation. An owner or operator using a test method that provides species-specific chemical concentrations may adjust the measured concentrations to the corresponding concentration values which would be obtained had the off-site material samples been analyzed using Method 305. To adjust these data, the measured concentration for each individual HAP chemical species contained in the off-site material is multiplied by the appropriate species-specific adjustment factor (f_m305_) listed in Table 1 of this subpart.


(d) *Determination of treatment process VOHAP concentration limit* (C_R_). (1) All of the off-site material streams entering the treatment process shall be identified. 


(2) The average VOHAP concentration of each off-site material stream at the point-of-delivery shall be determined using the procedures specified in paragraph (b) of this section. 


(3) The VOHAP concentration limit (C_R_) shall be calculated by using the results determined for each individual off-site material stream and the following equation:


(e) Determination of required HAP mass removal rate (RMR).


(1) Each individual stream containing HAP that enters the treatment process shall be identified.


(2) The average VOHAP concentration at the point-of-delivery for each stream identified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section shall be determined using the test methods and procedures specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(3) For each stream identified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section that has an average VOHAP concentration equal to or greater than 500 ppmw at the point-of-delivery, the average volumetric flow rate and the density of the off-site material stream at the point-of-delivery shall be determined.


(4) The required HAP mass removal rate (RMR) shall be calculated by using the average VOHAP concentration, average volumetric flow rate, and density determined in paragraph (e)(3) of this section for each stream and the following equation:


(f) Determination of actual HAP mass removal rate (MR).


(1) The actual HAP mass removal rate (MR) shall be determined based on results for a minimum of three consecutive runs. The sampling time for each run shall be at least 1 hour.


(2) The HAP mass flow entering the process (E_b_) and the HAP mass flow exiting the process (E_a_) shall be determined using the test methods and procedures specified in paragraphs (g)(2) through (g)(4) of this section.


(3) The actual mass removal rate shall be calculated using the HAP mass flow rates determined in paragraph (f)(2) of this section and the following equation:


(g) Determination of treatment process HAP reduction efficiency (R).


(1) The HAP reduction efficiency (R) for a treatment process shall be determined based on results for a minimum of three consecutive runs.


(2) Each individual stream containing HAP that enters the treatment process shall be identified. Each individual stream containing HAP that exits the treatment process shall be identified. The owner or operator shall prepare a sampling plan for measuring the identified streams that accurately reflects the retention time of the material in the process.


(3) For each run, information shall be determined for each stream identified in paragraph (g)(2) of this section as specified in paragraphs (g)(3)(i) through (g)(3)(iii) of this section.


(i) The mass quantity shall be determined for each stream identified in paragraph (g)(2) of this section as entering the process (Q_b_). The mass quantity shall be determined for each stream identified in paragraph (g)(2) of this section as exiting the process (Q_a_).


(ii) The average VOHAP concentration at the point-of-delivery shall be determined for each stream entering the process (C_b_) (as identified in paragraph (g)(2) of this section) using the test methods and procedures specified in paragraph (b) of this section.


(iii) The average VOHAP concentration at the point-of-treatment shall be determined for each stream exiting the process (C_a_) (as identified in paragraph (g)(2) of this section) using the test methods and procedures specified in paragraph (c) of this section.


(4) The HAP mass flow entering the process (E_b_) and the HAP mass flow exiting the process (E_a_) shall be calculated using the results determined in paragraph (g)(3) of this section and the following equations:


(5) The HAP reduction efficiency (R) shall be calculated using the HAP mass flow rates determined in paragraph (g)(4) of this section and the following equation:


(h) Determination of HAP biodegradation efficiency (R_bio_).


(1) The fraction of HAP biodegraded (F_bio_) shall be determined using one of the procedures specified in appendix C of this part 63.


(2) The HAP biodegradation efficiency (R_bio_) shall be calculated by using the following equation:


(i) *Determination of actual HAP mass removal rate (MR*_bio_*).* (1) The actual HAP mass removal rate (MR_bio_) shall be determined based on results for a minimum of three consecutive runs. The sampling time for each run shall be at least 1 hour.


(2) The HAP mass flow entering the process (E_b_) shall be determined using the test methods and procedures specified in paragraphs (g)(2) through (g)(4) of this section.


(3) The fraction of HAP biodegraded (F_bio_) shall be determined using the procedure specified in 40 CFR part 63, appendix C of this part.


(4) The actual mass removal rate shall be calculated by using the HAP mass flow rates and fraction of HAP biodegraded determined in paragraphs (i)(2) and (i)(3), respectively, of this section and the following equation:


(j) *Determination of maximum HAP vapor pressure for off-site material in a tank.* (1) The maximum HAP vapor pressure of the off-site material composition managed in a tank shall be determined using either direct measurement as specified in paragraph (j)(2) of this section or by knowledge of the off-site material as specified by paragraph (j)(3) of this section. 


(2) Direct measurement to determine the maximum HAP vapor pressure of an off-site material. 


(i) Sampling. A sufficient number of samples shall be collected to be representative of the off-site material contained in the tank. All samples shall be collected and handled in accordance with written procedures prepared by the owner or operator and documented in a site sampling plan. This plan shall describe the procedure by which representative samples of the off-site material is collected such that a minimum loss of organics occurs throughout the sample collection and handling process and by which sample integrity is maintained. A copy of the written sampling plan shall be maintained on-site in the plant site operating records. An example of an acceptable sampling plan includes a plan incorporating sample collection and handling procedures in accordance with the requirements specified in “Test Methods for Evaluating Solid Waste, Physical/Chemical Methods,” EPA Publication No. SW-846 or Method 25D in 40 CFR part 60, appendix A. 


(ii) Analysis. Any one of the following methods may be used to analyze the samples and compute the maximum HAP vapor pressure of the off-site material: 


(A) Method 25E in 40 CFR part 60 appendix A; 


(B) Methods described in American Petroleum Institute Bulletin 2517, “Evaporation Loss from External Floating Roof Tanks,”; 


(C) Methods obtained from standard reference texts; 


(D) ASTM Method 2879-83; or 


(E) Any other method approved by the Administrator. 


(3) *Use of knowledge to determine the maximum HAP vapor pressure of the off-site material.* Documentation shall be prepared and recorded that presents the information used as the basis for the owner's or operator's knowledge that the maximum HAP vapor pressure of the off-site material is less than the maximum vapor pressure limit listed in Table 3, Table 4, or Table 5 of this subpart for the applicable tank design capacity category. Examples of information that may be used include: the off-site material is generated by a process for which at other locations it previously has been determined by direct measurement that the off-site material maximum HAP vapor pressure is less than the maximum vapor pressure limit for the appropriate tank design capacity category. In the event that the Administrator and the owner or operator disagree on a determination of the maximum HAP vapor pressure for an off-site material stream using knowledge, then the results from a determination of HAP vapor pressure using direct measurement as specified in paragraph (j)(2) of this section shall be used to establish compliance with the applicable requirements of this subpart. The Administrator may perform or require that the owner or operator perform this determination using direct measurement.


(k) Procedure for determining no detectable organic emissions for the purpose of complying with this subpart.


(1) The test shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures specified in Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A. Each potential leak interface (i.e., a location where organic vapor leakage could occur) on the cover and associated closure devices shall be checked. Potential leak interfaces that are associated with covers and closure devices include, but are not limited to: the interface of the cover and its foundation mounting; the periphery of any opening on the cover and its associated closure device; and the sealing seat interface on a spring-loaded pressure-relief valve.


(2) The test shall be performed when the unit contains a material having a total organic concentration representative of the range of concentrations for the materials expected to be managed in the unit. During the test, the cover and closure devices shall be secured in the closed position.


(3) The detection instrument shall meet the performance criteria of Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, except the instrument response factor criteria in section 8.1.1 of Method 21 shall be for the weighted average composition of the organic constituents in the material placed in the unit at the time of monitoring, not for each individual organic constituent.


(4) The detection instrument shall be calibrated before use on each day of its use by the procedures specified in Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A.


(5) Calibration gases shall be as follows:


(i) Zero air (less than 10 ppmv hydrocarbon in air); and


(ii) A mixture of methane or n-hexane in air at a concentration of approximately, but less than, 10,000 ppmv.


(6) An owner or operator may choose to adjust or not adjust the detection instrument readings to account for the background organic concentration level. If an owner or operator chooses to adjust the instrument readings for the background level, the background level value must be determined according to the procedures in Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A.


(7) Each potential leak interface shall be checked by traversing the instrument probe around the potential leak interface as close to the interface as possible, as described in Method 21. In the case when the configuration of the cover or closure device prevents a complete traverse of the interface, all accessible portions of the interface shall be sampled. In the case when the configuration of the closure device prevents any sampling at the interface and the device is equipped with an enclosed extension or horn (e.g., some pressure relief devices), the instrument probe inlet shall be placed at approximately the center of the exhaust area to the atmosphere.


(8) An owner or operator must determine if a potential leak interface operates with no detectable emissions using the applicable procedure specified in paragraph (k)(8)(i) or (k)(8)(ii) of this section.


(i) If an owner or operator chooses not to adjust the detection instrument readings for the background organic concentration level, then the maximum organic concentration value measured by the detection instrument is compared directly to the applicable value for the potential leak interface as specified in paragraph (k)(9) of this section.


(ii) If an owner or operator chooses to adjust the detection instrument readings for the background organic concentration level, the value of the arithmetic difference between the maximum organic concentration value measured by the instrument and the background organic concentration value as determined in paragraph (k)(6) of this section is compared with the applicable value for the potential leak interface as specified in paragraph (k)(9) of this section.


(9) A potential leak interface is determined to operate with no detectable emissions using the applicable criteria specified in paragraphs (k)(9)(i) and (k)(9)(ii) of this section.


(i) For a potential leak interface other than a seal around a shaft that passes through a cover opening, the potential leak interface is determined to operate with no detectable organic emissions if the organic concentration value determined in paragraph (k)(8) is less than 500 ppmv.


(ii) For a seal around a shaft that passes through a cover opening, the potential leak interface is determined to operate with no detectable organic emissions if the organic concentration value determined in paragraph (k)(8) is less than 10,000 ppmv.


(l) *Control device performance test procedures.* Performance tests shall be based on representative performance (*i.e.,* performance based on normal operating conditions) and shall exclude periods of startup and shutdown unless specified by the Administrator. The owner or operator may not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. The owner or operator must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and include in such record an explanation to support that such conditions represent normal operation. Upon request, the owner or operator shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.


(1) Method 1 or 1A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, as appropriate, shall be used for selection of the sampling sites at the inlet and outlet of the control device. 


(i) To determine compliance with a control device percent reduction requirement, sampling sites shall be located at the inlet of the control device as specified in paragraphs (l)(1)(i)(A) and (l)(1)(i)(B) of this section, and at the outlet of the control device. 


(A) The control device inlet sampling site shall be located after the final product recovery device. 


(B) If a vent stream is introduced with the combustion air or as an auxiliary fuel into a boiler or process heater, the location of the inlet sampling sites shall be selected to ensure that the measurement of total HAP concentration or TOC concentration, as applicable, includes all vent streams and primary and secondary fuels introduced into the boiler or process heater. 


(ii) To determine compliance with an enclosed combustion device concentration limit, the sampling site shall be located at the outlet of the device. 


(2) The gas volumetric flow rate shall be determined using Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D, 2F, or 2G of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, as appropriate.


(3) To determine compliance with the control device percent reduction requirement, the owner or operator shall use Method 18 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A to measure the HAP in Table 1 of this subpart or Method 25A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A to measure TOC. Method 18 may be used to measure methane and ethane, and the measured concentration may be subtracted from the Method 25A measurement. Alternatively, any other method or data that has been validated according to the applicable procedures in Method 301 in appendix A of this part may be used. The following procedures shall be used to calculate percent reduction efficiency:


(i) A minimum of three sample runs must be performed. The minimum sampling time for each run shall be 1 hour. For Method 18, either an integrated sample or a minimum of four grab samples shall be taken. If grab sampling is used, then the samples shall be taken at approximately equal intervals in time such as 15 minute intervals during the run.


(ii) The mass rate of either TOC (minus methane and ethane) or total HAP (E_i_ and E_o_ ,respectively) shall be computed. 


(A) The following equations shall be used: 


(B) When the TOC mass rate is calculated, the average concentration reading (minus methane and ethane) measured by Method 25A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A shall be used in the equation in paragraph (l)(3)(ii)(A) of this section.


(C) When the total HAP mass rate is calculated, only the HAP constituents shall be summed using the equation in paragraph (l)(3)(ii)(A) of this section. 


(iii) The percent reduction in TOC (minus methane and ethane) or total HAP shall be calculated as follows: 


(iv) If the vent stream entering a boiler or process heater is introduced with the combustion air or as a secondary fuel, the weight-percent reduction of total HAP or TOC (minus methane and ethane) across the device shall be determined by comparing the TOC (minus methane and ethane) or total HAP in all combusted vent streams and primary and secondary fuels with the TOC (minus methane and ethane) or total HAP exiting the device, respectively. 


(4) To determine compliance with the enclosed combustion device total HAP concentration limit of this subpart, the owner or operator shall use Method 18 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A to measure the total HAP in Table 1 of this subpart or Method 25A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A to measure TOC. Method 18 may be used to measure methane and ethane and the measured concentration may be subtracted from the Method 25A measurement. Alternatively, any other method or data that has been validated according to Method 301 in appendix A of this part, may be used. The following procedures shall be used to calculate parts per million by volume concentration, corrected to 3 percent oxygen:


(i) A minimum of three sample runs must be performed. The minimum sampling time for each run shall be 1 hour. For Method 18, either an integrated sample or a minimum of four grab samples shall be taken. If grab sampling is used, then the samples shall be taken at approximately equal intervals in time, such as 15 minute intervals during the run.


(ii) The TOC concentration or total HAP concentration shall be calculated according to paragraph (m)(4)(ii)(A) or (m)(4)(ii)(B) of this section. 


(A) The TOC concentration (C_TOC_) is the average concentration readings provided by Method 25 A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, minus the concentration of methane and ethane.


(B) The total HAP concentration (C_HAP_) shall be computed according to the following equation:


(iii) The measured TOC concentration or total HAP concentration shall be corrected to 3 percent oxygen as follows: 


(A) The emission rate correction factor or excess air, integrated sampling and analysis procedures of Method 3B of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A shall be used to determine the oxygen concentration (%O_2dry_). Alternatively, the owner or operator may use Method 3A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A to determine the oxygen concentration. The samples shall be collected during the same time that the samples are collected for determining TOC concentration or total HAP concentration.


(B) The concentration corrected to 3 percent oxygen (C_c_) shall be computed using the following equation: 


(m) Determination of process vent stream flow rate and total HAP concentration.


(1) Method 1 or 1A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, as appropriate, must be used for selection of the sampling site.


(2) No traverse site selection method is needed for vents smaller than 0.10 meter in diameter. For vents smaller than 0.10 meter in diameter, sample at the center of the vent.


(3) Process vent stream gas volumetric flow rate must be determined using Method 2, 2A, 2C, 2D, 2F, or 2G of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, as appropriate.


(4) Process vent stream total HAP concentration must be measured using the following procedures:


(i) Method 18 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, must be used to measure the total HAP concentration. Alternatively, any other method or data that has been validated according to the protocol in Method 301 of appendix A of this part may be used.


(ii) Where Method 18 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, is used, the following procedures must be used to calculate parts per million by volume concentration:


(A) The minimum sampling time for each run must be 1 hour in which either an integrated sample or four grab samples must be taken. If grab sampling is used, then the samples must be taken at approximately equal intervals in time, such as 15 minute intervals during the run.


(B) The total HAP concentration (C_HAP_) must be computed according to the following equation:



---

[N] [61 FR 34158, July 1, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 38974, July 20, 1999; 66 FR 1267, Jan. 8, 2001; 80 FR 14277, Mar. 18, 2015]




