# ยง 203.52   Acceptance of individual residential water purification equipment.

If a property otherwise eligible for insurance under this part does not have access to a continuing supply of safe and potable water without the use of a water purification system, the requirements of this section must be complied with as a condition to acceptance of the mortgage for insurance. The mortgagee must provide appropriate documentation with the submission for insurance endorsement to address each of the requirements of this section.


(a) *Equipment.* Water purification equipment must be approved by a nationally recognized testing laboratory acceptable to the local or state health authority.


(b) *Certification by local (or state) health authority.* A local (or state) health authority certification must be submitted to HUD which certifies that:


(1) A point-of-entry or point-of-use water purification system is currently in operation on the property. If the system in operation employs point-of-use equipment, the purification system must be employed on each water supply source (faucet) serving the property. Where point-of-entry systems are used, separate water supply systems carrying untreated water for flushing toilets may be constructed.


(2) The system is sufficient to assure an uninterrupted supply of safe and potable water adequate to meet household needs.


(3) The water supply, when treated by the equipment, meets the requirements of the local (or state) health authority, and has been determined to meet local or state quality standards for drinking water. If neither state nor local standards are applicable, then quality shall be determined in accordance with standards set by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) pursuant to the Safe Drinking Water Act. (EPA standards are prescribed in the National Primary Drinking Water requirements, 40 CFR parts 141 and 142.) 


(4) There exists a Plan providing for the monitoring, servicing, maintenance, and replacement of the water equipment, which Plan meets the requirements of paragraph (f) of this section.


(c) *Mortgagor notice and certification.* (1) The prospective mortgagor must have received written notification, before the mortgagor signed a sales contract, that the property has a hazardous water supply that requires treatment in order to remain safe and acceptable for human consumption. The notification to the mortgagor must identify specific contaminants in the water supply serving the property, and the related health hazard arising from the presence of those contaminants.


(2) The mortgagor must have received, with the notification described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, a written good faith estimate of the maintenance and replacement costs of the equipment necessary to assure continuing safe drinking water. 


(3) A copy of the notification statement (including cost estimates), dated before the date of the sales contract, and signed by the prospective mortgagor to acknowledge its receipt, must accompany the submission for insurance endorsement. If a sales contract is signed in advance of the disclosure required by this paragraph, another sales contract must be executed after the information is provided to the prospective mortgagor and he or she has acknowledged receipt of the disclosure.


(4) The prospective mortgagor must sign a certification, substantially in the form set out in this paragraph (c)(4), at the time the application for mortgage credit approval is signed. This certification must be submitted to HUD:


(d) *Service contract.* Before mortgage closing, the mortgagor must enter into a service contract with an organization or individual specifically approved by the local (or state) health authority to carry out the provisions of the required Plan for servicing, maintenance, repair and replacement of the water purification equipment. A copy of the signed service contract must be provided to HUD.


(e) *Escrow for maintenance and replacement.* The mortgagee must establish and maintain an escrow account which provides for the accumulation of funds paid with the mortgagor's monthly mortgage payment adequate to assure proper servicing, maintenance, repair and replacement of the water purification equipment. The amount to be collected and escrowed by the mortgagee shall be based upon information provided by the manufacturer for the maintenance and replacement of the water purification equipment and for other charges anticipated by the service contractor. The initial monthly escrow amount shall be stated in the Plan. Disbursements from the account will be limited to costs associated with the normal servicing, maintenance, repair or replacement of the water purification equipment. Disbursements may only be made to the service contractor or its successor, to equipment suppliers, to the local (or state) health authority for the performance of testing or other required services, or to another entity approved by the health authority. So long as water purification remains necessary and the mortgage is insured by HUD, the mortgagee must maintain the escrow account.


(f) *Approved Plan.* A Plan, in the form of a contract entered into by the mortgagor and mortgagee and approved by the local (or state) health authority, must set out conditions that must be met by the parties as a condition to insurance of the mortgage by HUD. To be approved by the health authority:


(1) The Plan must set forth the respective responsibilities to be assumed by the mortgagor and the mortgagee, as well as the other entities who will implement the Plan, i.e., the health authority and the service contractor. In particular:


(i) The Plan must set out the responsibilities of the health authority for monitoring and enforcing performance of the service contractor, including any successor contractor that the health authority may later have occasion to name. By its approval of the Plan, the health authority documents its acceptance of these responsibilities, and the Plan should so indicate;


(ii) The Plan must provide for the monitoring of the operation of the water purification equipment, as well as for servicing (including disinfecting), and for repairing and replacing the system, as frequently as necessary, taking into consideration the system's design, anticipated use, and the type and level of contaminants present. Installation, servicing, repair and replacement of the water purification system must be performed by an individual or organization approved for the purpose by the local (or state) health authority and identified in the Plan. In meeting the requirements of paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section, the Plan may incorporate by reference specific terms and conditions of the service contract required under paragraph (d) of this section.


(iii) Under the Plan, responsibility for monitoring the performance of the service contractor and for assuring that the water purification system is properly serviced, repaired, and replaced rests with the local (or state) health authority that has given its approval to the Plan. The Plan must confer on the health authority all powers necessary to effect compliance by the service contractor. The health authority's powers shall include the authority to notify the mortgagor of any noncompliance by the service contractor. The plan must provide that, upon any notification of noncompliance received from the health authority, the mortgagor shall have the right to discharge the service contractor for cause and to appoint a successor organization or individual as service contractor; and


(iv) The Plan must provide for the mortgagor to make periodic escrow payments necessary for the servicing, maintenance, repair and replacement of the water purification system, and for the mortgagee to disburse funds from the escrow account as required, to the appropriate party or parties.


(2) The Plan must provide that if the dwelling served by the water purification system is refinanced, or is sold or otherwise transferred with a HUD-insured mortgage, the Plan will:


(i) Continue in full force and effect;


(ii) Impose an obligation on the mortgagor to notify any subsequent purchaser or transferee of the necessity for the water purification system and for its proper maintenance, and of the obligation to make escrow payments; and 


(iii) Require the mortgagor to furnish the purchaser with a copy of the Plan, before any sales contract is signed.


(g) *Periodic analysis.* Any Plan developed in accordance with this section must provide that an analysis of the water supply shall be obtained from the local (or state) health authority no less frequently than annually, but more frequently, if determined at any time to be necessary by the health authority or by the service contractor.



---

[N] [57 FR 9609, Mar. 19, 1992; 57 FR 27927, June 23, 1992]






