# ยง 205.1   Automatic revocation.

(a) *Reasons for automatic revocation.* The approval of a petition or self-petition made under section 204 of the Act and in accordance with part 204 of this chapter is revoked as of the date of approval:


(1) If the Secretary of State shall terminate the registration of the beneficiary pursuant to the provisions of section 203(e) of the Act before October 1, 1991, or section 203(g) of the Act on or after October 1, 1994;


(2) [Reserved]


(3) If any of the following circumstances occur before the beneficiary's or self-petitioner's journey to the United States commences or, if the beneficiary or self-petitioner is an applicant for adjustment of status to that of a permanent resident, before the decision on his or her adjustment application becomes final:


(i) *Immediate relative and family-sponsored petitions, other than Amerasian petitions.* (A) Upon written notice of withdrawal filed by the petitioner or self-petitioner with any officer of the Service who is authorized to grant or deny petitions.


(B) Upon the death of the beneficiary or the self-petitioner.


(C) Upon the death of the petitioner, unless:


(*1*) The petition is deemed under 8 CFR 204.2(i)(1)(iv) to have been approved as a Form I-360, Petition for Amerasian, Widow(er) or Special Immigrant under 8 CFR 204.2(b); or


(*2*) U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) determines, as a matter of discretion exercised for humanitarian reasons in light of the facts of a particular case, that it is inappropriate to revoke the approval of the petition. USCIS may make this determination only if the principal beneficiary of the visa petition asks for reinstatement of the approval of the petition and establishes that a person related to the principal beneficiary in one of the ways described in section 213A(f)(5)(B) of the Act is willing and able to file an affidavit of support under 8 CFR part 213a as a substitute sponsor. 


(D) Upon the legal termination of the marriage when a citizen or lawful permanent resident of the United States has petitioned to accord his or her spouse immediate relative or family-sponsored preference immigrant classification under section 201(b) or section 203(a)(2) of the Act. The approval of a spousal self-petition based on the relationship to an abusive citizen or lawful permanent resident of the United States filed under section 204(a)(1)(A)(iii) or 204(a)(1)(B)(ii) of the Act, however, will not be revoked solely because of the termination of the marriage to the abuser.


(E) Upon the remarriage of the spouse of an abusive citizen or lawful permanent resident of the United States when the spouse has self-petitioned under section 204(a)(1)(A)(iii) or 204(a)(1)(B)(ii) of the Act for immediate relative classification under section 201(b) of the Act or for preference classification under section 203(a)(2) of the Act.


(F) Upon a child reaching the age of 21, when he or she has been accorded immediate relative status under section 201(b) of the Act. A petition filed on behalf of a child under section 204(a)(1)(A)(i) of the Act or a self-petition filed by a child of an abusive United States citizen under section 204(a)(1)(A)(iv) of the Act, however, will remain valid for the duration of the relationship to accord preference status under section 203(a)(1) of the Act if the beneficiary remains unmarried, or to accord preference status under section 203(a)(3) of the Act if he or she marries.


(G) Upon the marriage of a child, when he or she has been accorded immediate relative status under section 201(b) of the Act. A petition filed on behalf of the child under section 204(a)(1)(A)(i) of the Act or a self-petition filed by a child of an abusive United States citizen under section 204(a)(1)(A)(iv) of the Act, however, will remain valid for the duration of the relationship to accord preference status under section 203(a)(3) of the Act if he or she marries.


(H) Upon the marriage of a person accorded preference status as a son or daughter of a United States citizen under section 203(a)(1) of the Act. A petition filed on behalf of the son or daughter, however, will remain valid for the duration of the relationship to accord preference status under section 203(a)(3) of the Act.


(I) Upon the marriage of a person accorded status as a son or daughter of a lawful permanent resident alien under section 203(a)(2) of the Act.


(J) Upon legal termination of the petitioner's status as an alien admitted for lawful permanent residence in the United States unless the petitioner became a United States citizen. The provisions of 8 CFR 204.2(i)(3) shall apply if the petitioner became a United States citizen.


(ii) *Petition for Pub. L. 97-359 Amerasian.* (A) Upon formal notice of withdrawal filed by the petitioner with the officer who approved the petition.


(B) Upon the death of the beneficiary.


(C) Upon the death or bankruptcy of the sponsor who executed Form I-361, Affidavit of Financial Support and Intent to Petition for Legal Custody for Pub. L. 97-359 Amerasian. In that event, a new petition may be filed in the beneficiary's behalf with the documentary evidence relating to sponsorship and, in the case of a beneficiary under 18 years of age, placement. If the new petition is approved, it will be given the priority date of the previously approved petition.


(D) Upon the death or substitution of the petitioner if other than the beneficiary or sponsor. However, if the petitioner dies or no longer desires or is able to proceed with the petition, and another person 18 years of age or older, an emancipated minor, or a corporation incorporated in the United States desires to be substituted for the deceased or original petitioner, a written request may be submitted to the Service or American consular office where the petition is located to reinstate the petition and restore the original priority date.


(E) Upon the beneficiary's reaching the age of 21 when the beneficiary has been accorded classification under section 201(b) of the Act. Provided that all requirements of section 204(f) of the Act continue to be met, however, the petition is to be considered valid for purposes of according the beneficiary preference classification under section 203(a)(1) of the Act if the beneficiary remains unmarried or under section 203(a)(3) if the beneficiary marries.


(F) Upon the beneficiary's marriage when the beneficiary has been accorded classification under section 201(b) or section 203(a)(1) of the Act. Provided that all requirements of section 204(f) of the Act continue to be met, however, the petition is to be considered valid for purposes of according the beneficiary preference classification under section 203(a)(3) of the Act.


(iii) *Petitions under section 203(b), other than special immigrant juvenile petitions.* (A) Upon invalidation pursuant to 20 CFR Part 656 of the labor certification in support of the petition.


(B) Upon the death of the petitioner or beneficiary.


(C) In employment-based preference cases, upon written notice of withdrawal filed by the petitioner to any officer of USCIS who is authorized to grant or deny petitions, where the withdrawal is filed less than 180 days after approval of the employment-based preference petition, unless an associated adjustment of status application has been pending for 180 days or more. A petition that is withdrawn 180 days or more after its approval, or 180 days or more after the associated adjustment of status application has been filed, remains approved unless its approval is revoked on other grounds. If an employment-based petition on behalf of an alien is withdrawn, the job offer of the petitioning employer is rescinded and the alien must obtain a new employment-based preference petition in order to seek adjustment of status or issuance of an immigrant visa as an employment-based immigrant, unless eligible for adjustment of status under section 204(j) of the Act and in accordance with 8 CFR 245.25.


(D) Upon termination of the petitioning employer's business less than 180 days after petition approval under section 203(b)(1)(B), 203(b)(1)(C), 203(b)(2), or 203(b)(3) of the Act, unless an associated adjustment of status application has been pending for 180 days or more. If a petitioning employer's business terminates 180 days or more after petition approval, or 180 days or more after an associated adjustment of status application has been filed, the petition remains approved unless its approval is revoked on other grounds. If a petitioning employer's business terminates the job offer of the petitioning employer is rescinded and the beneficiary must obtain a new employment-based preference petition on his or her behalf in order to seek adjustment of status or issuance of an immigrant visa as an employment-based immigrant, unless eligible for adjustment of status under section 204(j) of the Act and in accordance with 8 CFR 245.25.


(iv) *Special immigrant juvenile petitions.* An approved petition for classification as a special immigrant juvenile will be revoked as provided in 8 CFR 204.11(j)(1).


(b) *Notice.* When it shall appear to the director that the approval of a petition has been automatically revoked, he or she shall cause a notice of such revocation to be sent promptly to the consular office having jurisdiction over the visa application and a copy of such notice to be mailed to the petitioner's last known address.



---

[N] [61 FR 13077, Mar. 26, 1996, as amended at 71 FR 35749, June 21, 2006; 81 FR 73332, Oct. 24, 2016; 81 FR 82486, Nov. 18, 2016; 87 FR 13112, Mar. 8, 2022]




