# ยง 1203.735-211   Activities relating to private organizations and politics.

(a) *Definition.* For the purpose of this section, the term *private organization* denotes any group of persons or associations organized for any purpose whatever, except an organization established by the Government of the United States, or officially participated in by IDCA.


(b) *Participation in activities of employee organizations.* An employee may join or refrain from joining employee organizations or associations without interference, coercion, restraint, or fear of discrimination or reprisal.


(c) *Participation in activities of private organizations.* In participating in the program and activities of any private organization, an employee shall make clear that the employee's agency has no official connection with such organization and does not necessarily sponsor or sanction the viewpoints which it may express. 


(d) *Legal restrictions on membership in certain organizations.* An employee shall not have membership in any organization that advocates the overthrow of our constitutional form of Government in the United States, knowing that such organization so advocates (5 U.S.C. 7311, 18 U.S.C. 1918).


(e) *Private organizations concerned with foreign policy or other matters of concern to agencies.* (1) Limitation on participation. When a private organization is concerned primarily with foreign policy or international relations or other matters of concern to an employee's agency, an employee shall limit connection therewith as follows: Unless specifically permitted to do so, the employee may not serve as advisor, officer, director, teacher, sponsor, committee chairman, or in any other official capacity or permit the employee's name to be used on a letterhead, in a publication, in an announcement or news story, or at a public meeting, regardless of whether the employee's official title or connection is mentioned. The provisions of this section are not intended to prohibit the normal and active participation of an employee in professional organizations such as the American Political Science Association, the American Economic Association, the American Foreign Service Association, and similar organizations, since such participation is in the interest of both the employee and the Government. Employees are expected, however, to exercise discretion in such activities and are held personally accountable for any improper use of their relationship with IDCA.


(2) Request for special permission. Special permission to assume or continue a connection prohibited by paragraph (e)(1) of this section may be granted in cases where the public interest will not be adversely affected. To request such permission, or to determine whether the provisions are applicable to a particular case, the employee shall address a memorandum setting forth all of the circumstances to the appropriate officer. The appropriate officer for IDCA is the Assistant Director for Administration. 


(3) Application to senior officers. Because of the prominence resulting from their official positions, chiefs of mission and other senior officers should recognize the particular bearing of the provisions of paragraph (e)(1) of this section upon their activities. They should restrict association with any organizations involving foreign nations and the United States to simple membership and should not accept even honorary office in such organizations except with the specific prior approval as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section. 


(f) *Private organizations not concerned with foreign policy.* When the purpose and program of the organization do not fall primarily within the field of foreign policy or international relations, the employee's activity is limited only to the following extent: 


(1) The employee's official title or connection may be used to identify the employee, as in a civic association election, but may not be used on a letterhead, in a publication, or otherwise so as to employ the prestige of the U.S. Government to enhance that of the organization or to imply official sponsorship.


(2) When the employee is a representative of an association consisting of IDCA employees, or of a group of such employees, the employee's connection with the agency may be freely used so long as there is no implication of official sponsorship beyond that which may have been officially approved.


(g) *Political activities abroad.* A U.S. citizen employee shall not engage in any form of political activity in any foreign country.


(h) *Activities relating to U.S. politics.* The law (5 U.S.C. 7324, formerly the Hatch Act) provides in summary that it is unlawful for any Federal employee of the executive branch to use the employee's official authority or influence for the purpose of interfering with an election or affecting the result thereof, or to take any active part in political management or in political campaigns. These restrictions do not in any way affect the right of a Federal employee (1) to vote as the employee chooses; (2) to express personal political opinions, except as part of a campaign; (3) to make or refrain from making contributions to political organizations, provided contributions are not made in a Federal building or to another Federal officer or employee (see 18 U.S.C. 602, 603, 607, and 608); (4) to participate in local, nonpartisan activities.




