# § 13.20   Administrative offset of general debts.

This subpart provides for EPA's collection of debts by administrative offset under section 5 of the Debt Collection Act of 1982 (31 U.S.C. 3716), other statutory authorities and the common law. It does not apply to offsets against employee salaries covered by §§ 13.21, 13.22 and 13.23 of this subpart. EPA will collect debts by administrative offsets where it determines that such collections are feasible and are not otherwise prohibited by statute or contract.


EPA will decide, on a case-by-case basis, whether collection by administrative offset is feasible and that its use furthers and protects the interest of the United States.


(a) *Standards.* (1) The Administrator collects debts by administrative offset if—


(i) The debt is certain in amount;


(ii) Efforts to obtain direct payment from the debtor have been, or would most likely be, unsuccessful or the Administrator and the debtor agree to the offset;


(iii) Offset is not expressly or implicitly prohibited by statute, regulation or contract;


(iv) Offset is cost-effective or has significant deterrent value;


(v) Offset does not substantially impair or defeat program objectives; and


(vi) Offset is best suited to further and protect the Government's interest.


(2) The Administrator may, in determining the method and amount of the offset, consider the financial impact on the debtor.


(b) *Interagency offset.* The Administrator may offset a debt owed to another Federal agency from amounts due or payable by EPA to the debtor, or may request another Federal agency to offset a debt owed to EPA. The Administrator may request the Internal Revenue Service to offset an overdue debt from a Federal income tax refund due a debtor where reasonable attempts to obtain payment have failed. Interagency offsets from employee salaries will be made in accordance with the procedures contained in §§ 13.22 and 13.23.


(c) *Multiple debts.* Where moneys are available for offset against multiple debts of a debtor, it will be applied in accordance with the best interest of the Government as determined by the Administrator on a case-by-case basis.


(d) *Statutory bar to offset.* Administrative offset will not be made more than 10 years after the Government's right to collect the debt first accrued, unless facts material to the Government's right to collect the debt were not known and could not have been known through the exercise of reasonable care by the officer responsible for discovering or collecting the debt. For purposes of offset, the right to collect a debt accrues when the appropriate EPA official determines that a debt exists (e.g., contracting officer, grant award official, etc.), when it is affirmed by an administrative appeal or a court having jurisdiction, or when a debtor defaults on a payment agreement, whichever is latest. An offset occurs when money payable to the debtor is first withheld or when EPA requests offset from money held by another agency.


(e) *Pre-offset notice.* Before initiating offset, the Administrator sends the debtor written notice of:


(1) The basis for and the amount of the debt as well as the Agency's intention to collect the debt by offset if payment or satisfactory response has not been received within 30 days of the notice;


(2) The debtor's right to submit an alternative repayment schedule, to inspect and copy agency records pertaining to the debt, to request review of the determination of indebtedness or to apply for waiver under any available statute or regulation; and


(3) Applicable interest, penalty charges and administrative costs.


(f) *Alternative repayment.* The Administrator may, at the Administrator's discretion, enter into a repayment agreement with the debtor in lieu of offset. In deciding whether to accept payment of the debt by an alternative repayment agreement, the Administrator may consider such factors as the amount of the debt, the length of the proposed repayment period, whether the debtor is willing to sign a confess-judgment note, past Agency dealings with the debtor, documentation submitted by the debtor indicating that an offset will cause undue financial hardship, and the debtor's financial ability to adhere to the terms of a repayment agreement. The Administrator may require financial documentation from the debtor before considering the repayment arrangement.


(g) *Review of administrative determination.* (1) A debt will not be offset while a debtor is seeking either formal or informal review of the validity of the debt under this section or under another statute, regulation or contract. However, interest, penalty and administrative costs will continue to accrue during this period, unless otherwise waived by the Administrator. The Administrator may initiate offset as soon as practical after completion of review or after a debtor waives the opportunity to request review.


(2) The Administrator may administratively offset a debt prior to the completion of a formal or informal review where the determines that:


(i) Failure to take the offset would substantially prejudice EPA's ability to collect the debt; and


(ii) The time before the first offset is to be made does not reasonably permit the completion of the review procedures. (Offsets taken prior to completion of the review process will be followed promptly by the completion of the process. Amounts recovered by offset but later found not to be owed will be refunded promptly.)


(3) The debtor must provide a written request for review of the decision to offset the debt no later than 15 days after the date of the notice of the offset unless a different time is specifically prescribed. The debtor's request must state the basis for the request for review.


(4) The Administrator may grant an extension of time for filing a request for review if the debtor shows good cause for the late filing. A debtor who fails timely to file or to request an extension waives the right to review.


(5) The Administrator will issue, no later than 60 days after the filing of the request, a written final decision based on the evidence, record and applicable law.




