# § 721.10283   Poly[oxy(methyl-1,2-ethanediyl)], .alpha.-sulfo-.omega.-hydroxy-, C12-13-branched and linear alkyl ethers, sodium salts.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as poly[oxy(methyl-1,2-ethanediyl)], .alpha.-sulfo-.omega.-hydroxy-, C12-13-branched and linear alkyl ethers, sodium salts (PMN P-10-486; CAS No. 958238-81-8) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(l).


(ii) *Disposal.* Requirements as specified in § 721.85. A significant new of the substances is any method of disposal of a waste stream containing the PMN substances other than by incineration or by injection into a Class I or II waste disposal well.


(iii) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(2)(ii), (b)(2)(ii), and (c)(2)(ii).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a), (b), (c), (i), and (j) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule. 



---

[N] [77 FR 20305, Apr. 4, 2012, as amended at 80 FR 37166, June 30, 2015]




