# § 440.40   Nursing facility services for individuals age 21 or older (other than services in an institution for mental disease), EPSDT, and family planning services and supplies.

(a) *Nursing facility services.* (1) “Nursing facility services for individuals age 21 or older, other than services in an institution for mental diseases”, means services that are—


(i) Needed on a daily basis and required to be provided on an inpatient basis under §§ 409.31 through 409.35 of this chapter. 


(ii) Provided by—


(A) A facility or distinct part (as defined in § 483.5(b) of this chapter) that meets the requirements for participation under subpart B of part 483 of this chapter, as evidenced by a valid agreement between the Medicaid agency and the facility for providing nursing facility services and making payments for services under the plan; or 


(B) If specified in the State plan, a swing-bed hospital that has an approval from CMS to furnish skilled nursing facility services in the Medicare program; and 


(iii) Ordered by and provided under the direction of a physician. 


(2) Nursing facility services include services provided by any facility located on an Indian reservation and certified by the Secretary as meeting the requirements of subpart B of part 483 of this chapter. 


(b) *EPSDT.* “Early and periodic screening and diagnosis and treatment” means—


(1) Screening and diagnostic services to determine physical or mental defects in beneficiaries under age 21; and 


(2) Health care, treatment, and other measures to correct or ameliorate any defects and chronic conditions discovered. (See subpart B of part 441 of this chapter.)


(c) *Family planning services and supplies for individuals of child-bearing age.* [Reserved]



---

[N] [59 FR 56233, Nov. 10, 1994; 60 FR 50117, Sept. 28, 1995, as amended at 61 FR 59198, Nov. 21, 1996; 68 FR 46071, Aug. 4, 2003]




