# ยง 23.50   Minimum wage for Federal contractors and subcontractors.

(a) *General.* Pursuant to Executive Order 14026, the minimum hourly wage rate required to be paid to workers performing on or in connection with covered contracts with the Federal Government is at least:


(1) $15.00 per hour beginning January 30, 2022; and


(2) Beginning January 1, 2023, and annually thereafter, an amount determined by the Secretary pursuant to section 2 of Executive Order 14026. In accordance with section 2 of the Order, the Secretary will determine the applicable minimum wage rate to be paid to workers performing on or in connection with covered contracts on an annual basis beginning at least 90 days before any new minimum wage is to take effect.


(b) *Method for determining the applicable Executive Order minimum wage for workers.* The minimum wage to be paid to workers, including workers whose wages are calculated pursuant to special certificates issued under 29 U.S.C. 214(c), in the performance of a covered contract shall be at least:


(1) $15.00 per hour beginning January 30, 2022; and


(2) An amount determined by the Secretary, beginning January 1, 2023, and annually thereafter. The applicable minimum wage determined for each calendar year by the Secretary shall be:


(i) Not less than the amount in effect on the date of such determination;


(ii) Increased from such amount by the annual percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers (United States city average, all items, not seasonally adjusted), or its successor publication, as determined by the Bureau of Labor Statistics; and


(iii) Rounded to the nearest multiple of $0.05. In calculating the annual percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index for purposes of this section, the Secretary shall compare such Consumer Price Index for the most recent year available with the Consumer Price Index for the preceding year.


(c) *Relation to other laws.* Nothing in the Executive Order or this part shall excuse noncompliance with any applicable Federal or state prevailing wage law or any applicable law or municipal ordinance, or any applicable contract, establishing a minimum wage higher than the minimum wage established under the Executive Order and this part.


(d) *Relation to Executive Order 13658.* As of January 30, 2022, Executive Order 13658 is superseded to the extent that it is inconsistent with Executive Order 14026 and this part. Unless otherwise excluded by ยง 23.40, workers performing on or in connection with a covered new contract, as defined in ยง 23.20, must be paid at least the minimum hourly wage rate established by Executive Order 14026 and this part rather than the lower hourly minimum wage rate established by Executive Order 13658 and its implementing regulations in 29 CFR part 10.




