# ยง 1210.202   How do I submit sales summaries?

(a) *What to submit.* (1) You must submit sales summaries for all coal and other solid minerals produced from Federal and Indian leases and for any remote storage site from which you sell Federal or Indian solid minerals. You do not have to submit a sales summary for those months in which you do not sell any Federal or Indian production. 


(2) If you sell from five or fewer remote storage sites, you must submit a sales summary for each site. If you sell from more than five remote storage sites, you may total the data from all sites and submit the summarized data as one sales summary. The details you report on the sales summary are for the same sales reported on Form ONRR-4430. 


(3) Use the following table to determine the time frames for submitting sales summaries and the data elements you must include. Your submitted sales summaries must include the following data but may be internally generated documents from your own records. You do not need to re-format them before submitting them to us: 


(b) *When to submit.* (1) For leases with ad valorem royalty terms (that is, leases for which royalty is a percentage of the value of production), you must submit your sales summaries monthly at the same time you submit Form ONRR-4430. You do not have to submit a sales summary for any month in which you did not sell Federal or Indian production. 


(2) For leases with no ad valorem royalty terms (that is, leases in which the royalty due is not a function of the value of production, such as cents-per-ton or dollars-per-unit), you must submit monthly sales summaries only if we specifically request you to do so. 


(c) *How to submit.* (1) You should provide the sales summary data via electronic mail where possible. We will provide instructions and the proper email address for these submissions. 


(2) If you submit sales summaries by paper copy, mail them to one of the following addresses, unless ONRR publishes notice in the _Federal Register_ giving a different address: 


(i) *For U.S. Postal Service regular mail or Express Mail:* Office of Natural Resources Revenue, P.O. Box 25165, MS 633000B, Denver, CO 80225-0165. 


(ii) *For courier service or overnight mail (excluding Express Mail):* Office of Natural Resources Revenue, MS 633000B, Room A322, Bldg. 85, DFC, Denver, Colorado 80225-0165. 



---

[N] [48 FR 35641, Aug. 5, 1983, as amended at 76 FR 76615, Dec. 8, 2011; 87 FR 21745, Apr. 13, 2022]




