# § 985.107   Required actions for PHA with troubled performance rating.

(a) *On-site reviews*—(1) *Required reviews for troubled PHAs.* Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, HUD will conduct an on-site review of PHA program management for any PHA assigned an overall performance rating of troubled to assess the magnitude and seriousness of the PHA's noncompliance with performance requirements. 


(2) *On-site reviews for small PHAs.* Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(1) of this section, HUD may elect not to conduct an on-site review of a troubled PHA, if: 


(i) The PHA has less than 250 assisted units; and 


(ii) HUD determines that an on-site review is unnecessary to determine the needs of the PHA and the actions required to address the program deficiencies.


(b) *HUD written report.* HUD must provide the PHA a written report of its on-site review containing HUD findings of program management deficiencies, the apparent reasons for the deficiencies, and recommendations for improvement.


(c) *PHA corrective action plan.* Upon receipt of the HUD written report on its on-site review, the PHA must write a corrective action plan and submit it to HUD for approval. The corrective action plan must:


(1) Specify goals to be achieved;


(2) Identify obstacles to goal achievement and ways to eliminate or avoid them;


(3) Identify resources that will be used or sought to achieve goals;


(4) Identify an PHA staff person with lead responsibility for completing each goal;


(5) Identify key tasks to reach each goal;


(6) Specify time frames for achievement of each goal, including intermediate time frames to complete each key task; and


(7) Provide for regular evaluation of progress toward improvement.


(8) Be signed by the PHA board of commissioners chairperson and by the PHA executive director. If the PHA is a unit of local government or a state, the corrective action plan must be signed by the Section 8 program director and by the chief executive officer of the unit of government or his or her designee.


(d) *Monitoring.* The PHA and HUD must monitor the PHA's implementation of its corrective action plan to ensure performance targets are met.


(e) *Use of administrative fee reserve prohibited.* Any PHA assigned an overall performance rating of troubled may not use any part of the administrative fee reserve for other housing purposes (see 24 CFR 982.155(b)).


(f) *Upgrading poor performance rating.* HUD shall change an PHA's overall performance rating from troubled to standard or high performer if HUD determines that a change in the rating is warranted because of improved PHA performance and an improved SEMAP score.



---

[N] [63 FR 48555, Sept. 10, 1998, as amended at 68 FR 37672, June 24, 2003]




