# § 1232.16   What documentation must an agency create before it transfers records to a records storage facility?

(a) Documentation must include for each individual records series spanning one or more consecutive years transferred to storage:


(1) Creating office;


(2) Series title;


(3) Description (in the case of permanent or unscheduled records, the description must include a folder title list of the box contents or equivalent detailed records description);


(4) Date span;


(5) Physical form and medium of records (e.g., paper, motion picture film, sound recordings, photographs, or digital images);


(6) Volume;


(7) Citation to NARA-approved records schedule or agency records disposition manual (unscheduled records must cite the date the agency notified NARA or, if available, the date the SF 115 was submitted to NARA);


(8) Restrictions on access if applicable;


(9) Disposition (“permanent,” “temporary,” or “unscheduled; SF 115 pending”);


(10) Date of disposition action (transfer to the National Archives of the United States or destruction);


(11) Physical location, including name and address of facility; and


(12) Control number or identifier used to track records.


(b) In the case of permanent and unscheduled records, provide copies of such documentation to NARA and advise NARA in writing of the new location whenever the records are moved to a new storage facility. For permanent records, the agency must transmit this documentation to NARA no later than 30 days after transferring records to the agency records center or commercial records storage facility. Transmit documentation by mail at National Archives and Records Administration; Office of the Chief Records Officer (AC); 8601 Adelphi Road; College Park, MD 20740-6001, or by email at *RM.Communications@nara.gov.*

(1) Retain temporary records until the expiration of their NARA-approved retention period and no longer, except as provided for in § 1226.18 of this subchapter.


(2) Transfer permanent records to the National Archives of the United States in accordance with 36 CFR part 1235.



---

[N] [74 FR 51014, Oct. 2, 2009, as amended at 83 FR 13654, Mar. 30, 2018]




