# § 282.61   Hawaii State-Administered Program.

(a) The State of Hawaii's underground storage tank program is approved in lieu of the Federal program in accordance with Subtitle I of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (RCRA), as amended, 42 U.S.C. 6991 *et seq.* The State's program, as administered by the Hawaii Department of Health, was approved by EPA pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 6991c and part 281 of this chapter. EPA approved the Hawaii underground storage tank program on September 25, 2002, and approval was effective on September 30, 2002.


(b) Hawaii has primary responsibility for enforcing its underground storage tank program. However, EPA retains the authority to exercise its inspection and enforcement authorities in accordance with sections 9005 and 9006 of Subtitle I of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991d and 6991e, regardless of whether the State has taken its own actions, as well as in accordance with other statutory and regulatory provisions.


(c) To retain program approval, Hawaii must revise its approved program to adopt new changes to the Federal Subtitle I program that make it more stringent, in accordance with section 9004 of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991c, and 40 CFR part 281, subpart E. If Hawaii obtains approval for the revised requirements pursuant to section 9004 of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991c, the newly approved statutory and regulatory provisions will be added to this subpart and notice of any change will be published in the _Federal Register._

(d) Hawaii has final approval for the following elements submitted to EPA in the State's program application for final approval. On September 25, 2002, EPA published a rule approving the State's program in the _Federal Register,_ 67 FR 60161. That approval became effective on September 30, 2002. Copies of Hawaii's program application may be obtained from the Hawaii Department of Health, Solid and Hazardous Waste Branch, 919 Ala Moana Boulevard, Suite 212, Honolulu, HI 96814.


(1) *State statutes and regulations.* (i) The provisions cited in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section are incorporated by reference as part of the approved underground storage tank program in accordance with Subtitle I of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991 *et seq.*

(A) Hawaii Statutory Requirements Applicable to the Underground Storage Tank Program, 2001.


(B) Hawaii Regulatory Requirements Applicable to the Underground Storage Tank Program, 2001.


(ii) EPA considered the following statutes and regulations in evaluating the State program, but did not incorporate them by reference.


(A) The statutory provisions include of the Hawaii Revised Statutes:


(*1*) Hawaii Revised Statutes, Chapter 342L, Underground Storage Tanks.


(*2*) Hawaii Revised Statutes, Chapter 342D, Water Pollution.


(*3*) Hawaii Revised Statutes, Chapter 128D, Environmental Response Law.


(B) The regulatory provisions include; Hawaii Administrative Rules, Chapter 11-281, Underground Storage Tanks:


(iii) The following statutory and regulatory provisions are broader in scope than the Federal program, are not part of the approved program, and are not incorporated by reference. These provisions are not federally enforceable.


(A) The statutory provisions include; Hawaii Revised Statutes, Chapter 342L, Underground Storage Tanks:


(B) The regulatory provisions include the following sections of Hawaii Administrative Rules, Chapter 11-281, Underground Storage Tanks:


(2) *Statement of legal authority.* (i) “Attorney General's Statement,” signed by the State Attorney General on October 12, 2000, though not incorporated by reference, is referenced as part of the approved underground storage tank program in accordance with Subtitle I of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991 *et seq.*

(ii) Letter from the Attorney General of Hawaii to EPA, October 12, 2000, though not incorporated by reference, is referenced as part of the approved underground storage tank program in accordance with Subtitle I of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991 *et seq.*

(3) *Demonstration of procedures for adequate enforcement.* The “Demonstration of Procedures for Adequate Enforcement” submitted as part of the original application on May 23, 2001, though not incorporated by reference, is referenced as part of the approved underground storage tank program in accordance with Subtitle I of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991 *et seq.*

(4) *Program Description.* The program description and any other material submitted as part of the original application on May 23, 2001, though not incorporated by reference, are referenced as part of the approved underground storage tank program in accordance with Subtitle I of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991 *et seq.*

(5) *Memorandum of Agreement.* The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region 9 and the Hawaii Department of Health, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on September 13, 2002, though not incorporated by reference, is referenced as part of the approved underground storage tank program in accordance with Subtitle I of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991 *et seq.*


---

[N] [73 FR 53744, Sept. 17, 2008]




