# ยง 503.67   Appeals from denial of request for amendment of a record.

(a) *General.* An individual whose request for amendment of a record pertaining to him or her is denied, may further request a review of such determination in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.


(b) *Procedure for appeal.* Not later than thirty (30) days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) following receipt of notification of refusal to amend, an individual may file an appeal to amend the record. Such appeal shall:


(1) Be addressed to the Chairman, Federal Maritime Commission, 800 North Capitol Street, NW, Washington, DC 20573; and


(2) Specify the reasons for which the refusal to amend is challenged.


(c) *Commission procedure on appeal.* (1) Upon appeal from a denial to amend a record, the Chairman of the Commission or the officer designated by the Chairman to act in his or her absence, shall make a determination whether or not to amend the record and shall notify the individual of that determination by certified mail, return receipt requested, not later than thirty (30) days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal public holidays) after receipt of such appeal, unless extended pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section.


(2) The Chairman shall also notify the individual of the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(g)(1)(A) regarding judicial review of the Chairman's determination.


(3) If, on appeal, the refusal to amend the record is upheld, the Commission shall permit the individual to file a statement setting forth the reasons for disagreement with the Commission's determination.


(d) The Chairman, or his or her delegate in his or her absence, may extend up to thirty (30) days the time period prescribed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section within which to make a determination on an appeal from refusal to amend a record for the reasons that a fair and equitable review cannot be completed within the prescribed time period.



---

[N] [49 FR 44401, Nov. 6, 1984, as amended at 63 FR 50536, Sept. 22, 1998]




