# ยง 200.19a   Director of the Division of Trading and Markets.

The Director of the Division of Trading and Markets is responsible to the Commission for the administration and execution of the Commission's programs under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 relating to the structure and operation of the securities markets and the prevention of manipulation in the securities markets. These responsibilities include oversight of the national market system, the national clearance and settlement system, and self-regulatory organizations, such as the national securities exchanges, registered securities associations, clearing agencies, the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, and the Securities Investor Protection Corporation. In addition, these responsibilities include administering the Commission's rules related to supervised investment bank holding companies and ultimate holding companies of brokers or dealers that compute deductions for market and credit risk pursuant to ยง 240.15c3-1e of this chapter. This supervision includes the assessment of internal risk management controls and mathematical models used to calculate net capital and allowances for market, credit, and operational risks. Duties also include the registration and regulation of brokers, dealers, municipal securities dealers, government securities brokers and dealers, transfer agents, and securities information processors. The functions involved in the regulation of such entities include reviewing proposed rule changes of self-regulatory organizations, recommending the adoption and amendment of Commission rules, responding to interpretive, exemptive, and no-action requests, and conducting inspections, examinations, and market surveillance. In addition, the Director shall have the duties specified below:


(a) Administration of all matters arising under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a *et seq.*), except:


(1) The examination and processing of applications for registration of securities on national securities exchanges pursuant to section 12 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78*l*).


(2) The examination and processing of periodic reports filed pursuant to sections 13 and 15(d) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78m, 78*o*(d)).


(3) The examination and processing of proxy soliciting material pursuant to regulations adopted under section 14 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78n). 


(4) The examination and processing of ownership reports filed under section 16(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78p(a)).


(5) The denial or suspension of registration of securities registered on national securities exchanges, pursuant to section 19(a)(2) (15 U.S.C. 78s(a)(2)) by reason of failure to comply with the reporting requirements of that Act.


(6) The enforcement and related activities under the jurisdiction of the Division of Enforcement.



---

[N] [37 FR 16792, Aug. 19, 1972, as amended at 43 FR 13376, Mar. 30, 1978; 60 FR 14625, Mar. 20, 1995; 69 FR 34461, June 21, 2004; 73 FR 40152, July 11, 2008]




