# § 721.3635   Octadecanoic acid, ester with 1,2-propanediol, phosphate, anhydride with silicic acid (H

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as octadecanoic acid, ester with 1,2-propanediol, phosphate, anhydride with silicic acid (H_4_SiO_4_) (PMN P-96-1520; CAS No. 177771-31-2) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), and (g)(5). The following statement shall appear on each label as specified in § 721.72(b) and the SDS as specified in § 721.72(c): Do not release into the environment in quantities that allow surface water concentrations to exceed 6 ppb.


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(p) (15 months).


(iii) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90 (a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (N = 6).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [63 FR 44578, Aug. 20, 1998]




