# ยง 225.37   Optical media transfer and electronic submission.

(a) A railroad has the option of submitting the following reports, updates, and amendments by way of optical media (CD-ROM), or by means of electronic submission via the Internet:


(1) The Rail Equipment Accident/Incident Report (Form FRA F 6180.54);


(2) The Railroad Injury and Illness Summary (Form FRA F 6180.55);


(3) The Railroad Injury and Illness Summary (Continuation Sheet) (Form FRA F 6180.55a);


(4) The Highway-Rail Grade Crossing Accident/Incident Report (Form FRA F 6180.57); and


(5) The Employee Human Factor Attachment (Form FRA F 6180.81) (the Employee Human Factor Attachment must be in .pdf or .jpg format only).


(b) Each railroad utilizing the optical media option shall submit to FRA a computer CD-ROM containing the following:


(1) An electronic image of the completed and signed hard copy of the Railroad Injury and Illness Summary (Form FRA F 6180.55) in .pdf or .jpg format only; and


(2) The completed accident/incident report submissions.


(c)(1) Each railroad utilizing the electronic submission via the Internet option shall submit to FRA at *RsisAiReports@dot.gov:*

(i) An electronic image of the completed and signed hard copy of the Railroad Injury and Illness Summary (Form FRA F 6180.55) in .pdf or .jpg format only; and


(ii) The completed accident/incident report submissions.


(2) FRA will provide to the railroad an electronic notice acknowledging receipt of submissions filed electronically via the Internet.


(d) Each railroad employing either the optical media or electronic submission via the Internet option, shall submit its monthly reporting data for the reports identified in paragraph (a) of this section in a year-to-date file format as described in the FRA Guide.


(e) A railroad choosing to use optical media or electronic submission via the internet must use one of the approved formats specified in the Companion Guide. FRA will reject submissions that do not adhere to the required formats, which may result in the issuance of one or more civil penalty assessments against a railroad for failing to provide timely submissions of required reports as required by ยง 225.11.



---

[N] [75 FR 68909, Nov. 9, 2010, as amended at 81 FR 88135, Dec. 7, 2016]




