# ยง 751.403   Definitions.

The definitions in subpart A of this part apply to this subpart unless otherwise specified in this section.


*2,4,6-TTBP* means the chemical substance 2,4,6-tris(tert-butyl)phenol (CASRN 732-26-3).


*2,4,6-TTBP oil and lubricant additives* means any 2,4,6-TTBP-containing additive to a product of any viscosity intended to reduce friction between moving parts, whether mineral oil or synthetic base, including engine crankcase and gear oils and bearing greases. 2,4,6-TTBP oil and lubricant additive does not include hydraulic fluid and other oils whose primary purpose is not friction reduction.


*Article* means a manufactured item:


(1) Which is formed to a specific shape or design during manufacture,


(2) Which has end use function(s) dependent in whole or in part upon its shape or design during end use, and


(3) Which has either no change of chemical composition during its end use or only those changes of composition which have no commercial purpose separate from that of the article, and that result from a chemical reaction that occurs upon end use of other chemical substances, mixtures, or articles; except that fluids and particles are not considered articles regardless of shape or design.


*DecaBDE* means the chemical substance decabromodiphenyl ether (CASRN 1163-19-5).


*HCBD* means the chemical substance hexachlorobutadiene (CASRN 87-68-3).


*Lubricants and grease* mean any product used to reduce friction, heat, or wear between moving or adjacent solid surfaces, or that enhance the lubricity of other substances.


*PCTP* means the chemical substance pentachlorothiophenol (CASRN 133-49-3).


*PIP (3:1)* means the chemical substance phenol, isopropylated phosphate (3:1) (CASRN 68937-41-7).


*Potentially exposed person* means any person who may be exposed to a chemical substance or mixture regulated under this subpart as a result of the use of that chemical or mixture.






*Product* means the chemical substance, a mixture containing the chemical substance, or any object that contains the chemical substance or mixture containing the chemical substance that is not an article.


*Regulated area* means an area established by the regulated entity to demarcate areas where airborne concentrations of a specific chemical substance can reasonably be expected.






*Research and Development* means laboratory and research use only for purposes of scientific experimentation or analysis, or chemical research on, or analysis of, the chemical substance, including methods for disposal, but not for research or analysis for the development of a new product, or refinement of an existing product that contains the chemical substance.



---

[N] [86 FR 879, Jan. 6, 2021, as amended at 86 FR 894, 909, 922, 932, Jan. 6, 2021; 89 FR 91514, Nov. 19, 2024]




