# § 648.6   Dealer/processor permits.

(a) *General.* (1) All dealers of NE multispecies, monkfish, skates, Atlantic herring, Atlantic sea scallop, Atlantic deep-sea red crab, spiny dogfish, summer flounder, Atlantic surfclam, ocean quahog, Atlantic mackerel, *Illex* squid, longfin squid, butterfish, scup, bluefish, golden tilefish, blueline tilefish, and black sea bass; Atlantic surfclam and ocean quahog processors; Atlantic hagfish dealers and/or processors, and Atlantic herring processors or dealers, as described in § 648.2; must have been issued under this section, and have in their possession, a valid permit or permits for these species. A dealer of Atlantic chub mackerel must have been issued and have in their possession, a valid dealer permit for Atlantic mackerel, *Illex* squid, longfin squid, or butterfish in accordance with this paragraph. A dealer of Mid-Atlantic forage species must have been issued and have in their possession, a valid dealer permit for any species issued in accordance with this paragraph.


(2) *At-sea processors*—(i) *At-sea mackerel processors.* Notwithstanding the provisions of § 648.4(a)(5), any vessel of the United States must have been issued and carry on board a valid at-sea processor permit issued under this section to receive over the side, possess, and process Atlantic mackerel harvested in or from the EEZ by a lawfully permitted vessel of the United States.


(ii) *Atlantic herring at-sea processing permit.* A vessel of the United States, including a vessel that is >165 ft (50.3 m) length overall, or >750 GRT (680.4 mt), is eligible to obtain an Atlantic herring at-sea processing permit to receive and process Atlantic herring subject to the U.S. at-sea processing (USAP) allocation published by the Regional Administrator pursuant to § 648.200. Such a vessel may not receive and process Atlantic herring caught in or from the EEZ unless the vessel has been issued and has on board an Atlantic herring at-sea processing permit.


(iii) *Reporting requirements.* An at-sea processor receiving Atlantic mackerel or Atlantic herring is subject to dealer reporting requirements specified in § 648.7(a).


(b) *Dealer/processor permit applications.* Same as § 648.5(b). 


(c) *Information requirements.* Applications must contain at least the following information, as applicable, and any other information required by the Regional Administrator: Company name, place(s) of business (principal place of business if applying for a surfclam and ocean quahog permit), mailing address(es) and telephone number(s), owner's name, dealer permit number (if a renewal), name and signature of the person responsible for the truth and accuracy of the application, a copy of the certificate of incorporation if the business is a corporation, and a copy of the partnership agreement and the names and addresses of all partners, if the business is a partnership, name of at-sea processor vessel, and current vessel documentation papers.


(d) *Fees.* Same as § 648.4(d). 


(e) *Issuance.* Except as provided in subpart D of 15 CFR part 904, the Regional Administrator will issue a permit at any time during the fishing year to an applicant, unless the applicant fails to submit a completed application. An application is complete when all requested forms, information, and documentation have been received and the applicant has submitted all applicable reports specified in § 648.7 during the 12 months immediately preceding the application. Upon receipt of an incomplete or improperly executed application, the Regional Administrator will notify the applicant of the deficiency in the application. If the applicant fails to correct the deficiency within 30 days following the date of notification, the application will be considered abandoned. 


(f) *Expiration.* Same as § 648.4(g). 


(g) *Duration.* A permit is valid until it is revoked, suspended, or modified under 15 CFR part 904, or otherwise expires, or ownership changes, or the applicant has failed to report any change in the information on the permit application to the Regional Administrator as required by paragraph (j) of this section. 


(h) *Reissuance.* Reissued permits, for otherwise valid permits, may be issued by the Regional Administrator when requested in writing by the applicant, stating the need for reissuance and the Federal dealer permit number assigned. An application for a reissued permit will not be considered a new application. An appropriate fee may be charged. 


(i) *Transfer.* Permits issued under this part are not transferable or assignable. A permit is valid only for the person to whom, or other business entity to which, it is issued. 


(j) *Change in application information.* Same as § 648.5(k). 


(k) *Alteration.* Same as § 648.4(i). 


(l) *Display.* Same as § 648.5(m). 


(m) *Federal versus state requirements.* If a requirement of this part differs from a fisheries management measure required by state law, any dealer issued a Federal dealer permit must comply with the more restrictive requirement. 


(n) *Sanctions.* Same as § 648.4(m). 



---

[N] [61 FR 34968, July 3, 1996]




