# ยง 303.3   Policy.

(a) The Peace Corps will administer the FOIA with a presumption of openness. The Peace Corps will make its records concerning its operations, activities, and business available to the public, consistent with the requirements of the FOIA. The agency will also consider whether partial disclosure of information is possible whenever it determines that a full disclosure of a requested record is not possible. This includes taking reasonable steps to segregate and release nonexempt information.


(b) Records that the FOIA requires agencies to make available for public inspection in an electronic format may be accessed through the Peace Corps' website. The Peace Corps FOIA Office is responsible for determining which of its records must be made publicly available (including frequently requested records), identifying additional records of interest to the public that are appropriate for public disclosure, and for posting and indexing such records. The Peace Corps will ensure that its website of posted records and indices is reviewed and updated on an ongoing basis. The Peace Corps has a FOIA Public Liaison who can assist individuals in locating records.


(c) In accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(8), the Peace Corps may make discretionary disclosures of records or information, without a formal FOIA request and that may be exempt from disclosure under the FOIA whenever disclosure would not foreseeably harm an interest protected by a FOIA exemption and disclosure is not prohibited by law. However, this policy does not create any enforceable right in a court of law or any other tribunal.


(d) Requests for records of the Office of Inspector General (OIG records), as defined in ยง 303.2, and appeals from denials of requests for OIG records are subject to this policy and will be granted or denied consistent with ยง 303.10(b) through (c) through their own FOIA adjudication process.



---

[N] [89 FR 25523, Apr. 11, 2024]






