# § 1601.1   Purpose and scope.

(a) *In general.* This part contains the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (“CSB” or “agency”) regulations implementing the Freedom of Information Act (“FOIA”), 5 U.S.C. 552. These regulations provide the procedures by which members of the public may obtain access to records compiled, created, and maintained by the CSB, along with the CSB procedures for responding to such requests. The rules in this subpart are to be read in conjunction with the FOIA and the Uniform Freedom of Information Fee Schedule and Guidelines published by the White House Office of Management and Budget (OMB Guidelines).


(b) *Definitions.*

(1) *Chairperson* means the Chairperson of the CSB.


(2) *Chief FOIA Officer* means the person designated by Chairperson who has overall responsibility for the CSB's compliance with the FOIA.


(3) *FOIA Officer* means a person designated by the Chief FOIA Officer to process requests for the CSB documents under the FOIA.


(4) *Record* means information regardless of its physical form or characteristics including information created, stored, and retrievable by electronic means that is created or obtained by the CSB and under the control of the CSB at the time of the request, including information maintained for the CSB by an entity under Government contract for records management purposes. *Record* includes any writing, drawing, map, recording, tape, film, photo, or other documentary material by which information is preserved.


(5) *Requester* means any person, including an individual, Indian tribe, partnership, corporation, association, or public or private organization other than a Federal agency that requests access to records in the possession of the CSB pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552.




