# ยง 982.311   When assistance is paid.

(a) *Payments under HAP contract.* Housing assistance payments are paid to the owner in accordance with the terms of the HAP contract. Housing assistance payments may only be paid to the owner during the lease term, and while the family is residing in the unit.


(b) *Termination of payment: When owner terminates the lease.* Housing assistance payments terminate when the lease is terminated by the owner in accordance with the lease. However, if the owner has commenced the process to evict the tenant, and if the family continues to reside in the unit, the PHA must continue to make housing assistance payments to the owner in accordance with the HAP contract until the owner has obtained a court judgment or other process allowing the owner to evict the tenant. The PHA may continue such payments until the family moves from or is evicted from the unit.


(c) *Termination of payment: Other reasons for termination.* Housing assistance payments terminate if:


(1) The lease terminates;


(2) The HAP contract terminates; or


(3) The PHA terminates assistance for the family.


(d) *Family move-out.* (1) If the family moves out of the unit, the PHA may not make any housing assistance payment to the owner for any month after the month when the family moves out. The owner may keep the housing assistance payment for the month when the family moves out of the unit.


(2) If a participant family moves from an assisted unit with continued tenant-based assistance, the term of the assisted lease for the new assisted unit may begin during the month the family moves out of the first assisted unit. Overlap of the last housing assistance payment (for the month when the family moves out of the old unit) and the first assistance payment for the new unit, is not considered to constitute a duplicative housing subsidy. 



---

[N] [60 FR 34695, July 3, 1995, as amended at 80 FR 8246, Feb. 17, 2015]




