# § 25.100   Definitions.

In this part, unless the context indicates otherwise:


(a) *Act* means the provisions entitled “Foreign Military Sales Debt Reform,” of Title III, entitled “Military Assistance,” of an act entitled “Foreign Operations, Export Financing and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1988” (Pub. L. 100-202), enacted December 22, 1987.


(b) *AECA* means the Arms Export Control Act, as amended (22 U.S.C. 2751 *et seq.*).


(c) *Borrower* means the obligor on an FMS Advance.


(d) *Closing date* means:


(1) With respect to the prepayment of the amounts permitted by this part to be prepaid of FMS Loans held by DSAA, the date designated by the mutual agreement of both the Borrower and DSAA on which the Guaranty will be attached to the Private Loan Note or the Private Loan Portion Notes, as the case may be, the Private Loan will be funded, and the Total Permitted Prepayment Amount, or the portion thereof which the Borrower has selected to prepay, will be prepaid; and


(2) With respect to the prepayment of the amounts permitted by this part to be prepaid of FMS Loans held by the FFB and guaranteed by DSAA, the date designated by the mutual agreement of the Borrower, the FFB, and DSAA on which the Guaranty will be attached to the Private Loan Note or the Private Loan Portion Notes, as the case may be, the Private Loan will be funded, and the Total Permitted Prepayment Amount, or Portion thereof which the Borrower has selected to prepay, will be prepaid.


(e) *Derivative* means any right, interest, instrument or security issued or traded on the credit of the Private Loan or any Private Loan Portion, including but not limited to:


(1) Any participation share of, or undivided ownership or other equity interest in, the Private Loan or any Private Loan Portion;


(2) Any note, bond or other debt instrument or obligation which is collateralized or otherwise secured by a pledge of, or secruity interest in, the Private Loan or any Private Loan Portion; or


(3) Any such interest in such an interest or any such instrument secured by such an instrument.


(f) *DSAA* means the Defense Security Assistance Agency, an agency within the Department of Defense.


(g) *Eligible FMS advance* means any FMS Advance which:


(1) Was outstanding on December 22, 1987;


(2) Has principal amounts becoming due and payable after September 30, 1989; and


(3) Bears interest at a rate equal to or greater than 10 percentum per annum.


(h) *Eligible FMS loan* means any FMS Loan which:


(1) Was outstanding on December 22, 1987;


(2) Has principal amounts becoming due and payable after September 30, 1989; and


(3) Bears interest pursuant to the terms of the loan agreement relating thereto at a consolidated rate equal to or greater than 10 percentum per annum.


(i) *Eligible private lender* means either:


(1) Any of the following entities:


(i) Any banking, savings, or lending institution, or any subsidiary or affiliate thereof, chartered or otherwise lawfully organized under the laws of any State, the District of Columbia, the United States or any territory or possession of the United States, including, but not limited to, any bank, trust company, industrial bank, investment banking company, savings association, savings and loan association, building and loan association, savings bank, credit union, or finance company, which is doing business in the United States;


(ii) Any broker or dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;


(iii) Any company lawfully organized as an insurance company, and which is subject to supervision by the insurance commissioner or a similar official or agency of a State; or


(iv) Any United States pension fund; or


(2) Any trust or other special purpose financing entity which is funded initially by an entity or entities of the type described in paragraph (i)(1) of this section.


(j) *FFB* means the Federal Financing Bank, and instrumentality and wholly-owned corporation of the United States.


(k) *FMS* means Foreign Military Sales.


(l) *FMA advance* means:


(1) A disbursement of funds made pursuant to a loan agreement between the Borrower and DSAA, which loan agreement provides for making of an FMS Loan; or


(2) A disbursement of funds made pursuant to a loan agreement between the Borrower and the FFB, which loan agreement provides for the making of an FMS Loan.


(m) *FMS loan* means either:


(1) A loan made directly by the Secretary of Defense pursuant to section 23 of AECA; or


(2) A loan made by the FFB and guaranteed by the Secretary of Defense pursuant to section 24 of AECA; and “FMS Loans” mean the aggregate of such loans made to or for the account of a Borrower.


(n) *Guaranteed-amount debt derivative* means any note, bond or other debt instrument or obligation which is collateralized or otherwise secured by a pledge of, or security interest in, the Private Loan Note or any Private Loan Portion Note or any Derivative, as the case may be, which has an exclusive or preferred claim to the Guaranteed Loan Amount or the respective Guaranteed Loan Portion Amount or the respective Guaranteed-Amount Equivalent, as the case may be.


(o) *Guaranteed-amount equity derivative* means any participation share of, or undivided ownership or other equity interest in, the Private Loan or any Private Loan Portion or any Derivative, as the case may be, which has an exclusive or preferred claim to the Guaranteed Loan Amount or the respective Guaranteed Loan Portion Amount or the respective Guaranteed-Amount Equivalent, as the case may be.


(p) *Guaranteed-amount equivalent* means:


(1) With respect to any Derivative which is equal in principal amount to the Private Loan or any Private Loan Portion, that amount of payment on account of such Derivative which is equal to the Guaranteed Loan Amount or the respective Guaranteed Loan Portion Amount, as the case may be; or


(2) With respect to any Derivatives which in the aggregate are equal in principal amount to the Private Loan or any Private Loan Portion, that amount of payment on account of such derivatives which is equal to the Guaranteed Loan Amount or the respective Guaranteed Loan Portion Amount, as the case may be.


(q) *Guaranteed loan amount* means that amount of payment on account of the Private Loan which is guaranteed under the terms of the Guaranty.


(r) *Guaranteed loan portion amount* means that amount of payment on account of any Private Loan Portion which is guaranteed under the terms of the Guaranty.


(s) *Guaranty* means either a new guaranty of the United States issued by DSAA or an existing guaranty of the United States transferred by DSAA, in the form of guaranty set forth in § 25.405, which guaranty will be attached to a Private Loan Note or Private Loan Portion Note.


(t) *Interest rate difference* means the difference between:


(1) The cost of funds to the Borrower for the Private Loan (expressed in terms of the true rate of interest applicable to the Private Loan) if paragraph (a) of § 25.404 applies to the Private Loan; and


(2) The cost of funds to the Borrower for the Private Loan (expressed in terms of the true rate of interest applicable to the Private Loan) if paragraph (a) of § 25.404 does not apply to the Private Loan.


(u) *Non-registered obligation* means a bearer obligation which does not comply with all of the registration requirements of the Internal Revenue Code.


(v) *Permitted arrears prepayment amount* means the sum of all arrears, if any, on all FMS Loans, which arrears are outstanding on the Closing Date.


(w) *Permitted guaranty holder* means:


(1) An individual domiciled in the United States;


(2) A corporation incorporated, chartered or otherwise organized in the United States; or


(3) A partnership or other juridical entity doing business in the United States.


(x) *Permitted P&I prepayment amount* means, with respect to each Eligible FMS Loan or Eligible FMS Advance, as the case may be, the sum of:


(1) All principal amounts which become due and payable after September 30, 1989, on the respective Eligible FMS Loan or Eligible FMS Advance; and


(2) All unpaid interest, if any, on the respective Eligible FMS Loan or Eligible FMS Advance accrued as of the Closing Date.


(y) *Private loan* means, collectively, the loan or loans that is or are obtained by the Borrower from an Eligible Private Lender to prepay the Total Permitted Prepayment Amount, or the portion thereof which the Borrower has selected to prepay.


(z) *Private loan note* means, collectively, the note or notes executed and delivered by the Borrower to evidence the Private Loan.


(aa) *Private loan portion* means any portion of the Private Loan.


(bb) *Private loan portion note* means any note executed and delivered by the Borrower to evidence a Private Loan Portion.


(cc) *Total permitted prepayment amount* means the sum of:


(1) The aggregate of the respective Permitted P&I Prepayment amount for all Eligible FMS Loans and all Eligible FMS Advances on account of FMS Loans which FMS Loans do not, in themselves, meet the criteria of Eligible FMS Loans; and


(2) The Permitted Arrears Prepayment Amount.


(dd) *Unguaranteed-amount equivalent* means all amounts of payment on account of any Derivative other than the respective Guaranteed-Amount Equivalent.


(ee) *Unguaranteed loan amount* means all amounts of payment on account of the Private Loan other than the Guaranteed Amount.


(ff) *Unguaranteed loan portion amount* means all amounts of payment on account of any Private Loan Portion other than the respective Guaranteed Loan Portion Amount.




