# § 32.402   Samples of mohair top grades; method of obtaining.

Samples certified as representative of the official standards of the United States of grades of mohair top will be furnished when available as follows, subject to other conditions for this section, upon filing of an approved application and prepayment of the cost thereof as fixed in § 32.403. The certification will be issued by the U.S. Department of Agriculture and will be signed by the Director of the Livestock Division or other official duly authorized by him. 


(a) Samples representative of the official grades of mohair top: 


(1) *Complete set.* Nine certified samples of mohair top, grades 40s through 20s. 


(2) *Individual sample.* Individual certified samples of mohair top, grades 40s through 20s. 


(b) Each application for standard samples of mohair top shall be upon an application form furnished or approved by the Agricultural Marketing Service, shall be signed by the applicant, and shall be accompanied by certified check, draft, postal money order, or express money order, payable to the “Agricultural Marketing Service,” in an amount to cover the cost of the samples requested and shall incorporate the following agreement: 


(1) That no samples representative of the official mohair top standards shall be considered or used as representing such standards after cancellation in accordance with this section. 


(2) That the said standard samples shall be subject to inspection by the Secretary or by any duly authorized officer or agent of the Department of Agriculture during usual business hours of the person having custody of the samples. 


(3) That the certificate covering any of the samples representative of the standards may be revoked and canceled by the Director of the Livestock Division, if it is found upon such inspection that the said samples are not representative of the official standards. 




