# ยง 2916.2-4   Termination of lease; cancellation.

(a) *Action by authorized officer.* (1) The authorized officer may terminate a lease at the request of the lessee if the lessee shall make satisfactory showing that such termination will not adversely affect the public interest and that he has paid all charges due the Government thereunder. 


(2) A lease may be canceled if the lessee shall fail to comply with any of the provisions of this part or of the lease, or shall devote the lease area primarily to any purpose other than the rearing of fur-bearing animals as authorized. No lease will be canceled until the lessee has been formally notified of such default and such default shall continue for 60 days after service of such notice. 


(b) *Removal of improvements and personal property.* (1) Improvements or personal property may not be removed from the lands, except fur-bearing animals disposed of in the regular course of business, unless all moneys due the United States under the lease have been paid. The lessee shall be allowed 90 days from the date of expiration or termination of the lease within which to remove his personal property and such improvements as are not disposed of in the manner set forth in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, which he has a right to remove; if not removed or otherwise disposed of within the said period, such improvements or personal property shall become the property of the United States. 


(2) Upon the expiration of the lease or the earlier termination thereof, the authorizing officer may, in his discretion and upon a written petition filed by the lessee within 30 days from the date of such expiration or termination, require the subsequent lease applicant, prior to the execution of a new lease, to agree to compensate the lessee for any improvements of a permanent nature that he may have placed upon the leased area for fur-farming purposes during the period of the lease. If the interested parties are unable to reach an agreement as to the amount of compensation, the amount shall be fixed by the authorizing officer. All such agreements to be effective, must be approved by the authorizing officer. The failure of the subsequent lessee to pay the former lessee in accordance with such agreement will be just cause for cancellation of the lease. 




