# § 19.746   Authorized materials.

(a) *General.* The appropriate TTB officer determines what materials make spirits unfit for beverage use but do not impair the quality of the spirits for fuel use. Spirits treated with materials authorized under this section will be considered rendered unfit for beverage use and eligible for withdrawal as fuel alcohol.


(b) *Authorized materials.* Subject to the specifications in paragraph (c) of this section, proprietors are authorized to render spirits unfit for beverage use by adding to each 100 gallons of spirits any of following materials in the quantities specified:


(1) Two gallons or more of—


(i) Gasoline or automotive gasoline (for use in engines that require unleaded gasoline, the Environmental Protection Agency and manufacturers specifications may require that unleaded gasoline be used to render spirits unfit for beverage use);


(ii) Natural gasoline;


(iii) Kerosene;


(iv) Deodorized kerosene;


(v) Rubber hydrocarbon solvent;


(vi) Methyl isobutyl ketone;


(vii) Mixed isomers of nitropropane;


(viii) Heptane;


(ix) Ethyl tertiary butyl ether (ETBE);


(x) Raffinate;


(xi) Naphtha;


(xii) Straight run gasoline;


(xiii) Alkylate;


(xiv) High octane denaturant blend;


(xv) Methyl tertiary butyl ether; or


(xvi) Any combination of the materials listed in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (xv) of this section;


(2) Five gallons or more of Toluene; or


(3) One-eighth (
1/8) of an ounce of denatonium benzoate N.F. and 2 gallons of isopropyl alcohol.


(c) *Specifications.* Specifications for the materials listed in paragraph (b) are found in part 21, subpart E, of this chapter.


(d) *Published list.* The appropriate TTB officer periodically publishes a list of materials that may be used to make spirits unfit for beverage use in addition to those listed in paragraph (b) of this section. The list can be found at *https://www.ttb.gov.* The list will specify the material name and quantity required to render spirits unfit for beverage use.



---

[N] [T.D. TTB-140, 81 FR 59455, Aug. 30, 2016, as amended by T.D. TTB-196, 89 FR 87939, Nov. 6, 2024]




