# § 625.9   Determinations of entitlement; notices to individual.

(a) *Determination of initial application.* (1) The State agency shall promptly, upon the filing of an initial application for DUA, determine whether the individual is eligible, and if the individual is found to be eligible, the weekly amount of DUA payable to the individual and the period during which DUA is payable. 


(2) An individual's eligibility for DUA shall be determined, where a reliable record of employment, self-employment and wages is not obtainable, on the basis of an affidavit submitted to the State agency by the individual, and on a form prescribed by the Secretary which shall be furnished to the individual by the State agency. 


(b) *Determinations of weekly applications.* The State agency shall promptly, upon the filing of an application for a payment of DUA with respect to a week of unemployment, determine whether the individual is entitled to a payment of DUA with respect to that week, and, if entitled, the amount of DUA to which the individual is entitled. 


(c) *Redetermination.* The provisions of the applicable State law concerning the right to request, or authority to undertake, reconsideration of a determination pertaining to regular compensation under the applicable State law shall apply to determinations pertaining to DUA. 


(d) *Notices to individual.* The State agency shall give notice in writing to the individual, by the most expeditious method, of any determination or redetermination of an initial application, and of any determination of an application for DUA with respect to a week of unemployment which denies DUA or reduces the weekly amount initially determined to be payable, and of any redetermination of an application for DUA with respect to a week of unemployment. Each notice of determination or redetermination shall include such information regarding the determination or redetermination and notice of right to reconsideration or appeal, or both, as is furnished with written notices of determination and written notices of redeterminations with respect to claims for regular compensation. 


(e) *Promptness.* Full payment of DUA when due shall be made with the greatest promptness that is administratively feasible. 


(f) *Secretary's Standard.* The procedures for making determinations and redeterminations, and furnishing written notices of determinations, redeterminations, and rights of appeal to individuals applying for DUA, shall be consistent with this part and with the Secretary's “Standard for Claim Determinations—Separation Information,” *Employment Security Manual.* Part V, sections 6010 *et seq.* (Appendix B of this part).



---

[N] [42 FR 46712, Sept. 16, 1977, as amended at 49 FR 18295, Apr. 30, 1984; 55 FR 555, Jan. 5, 1990] 




