# § 1.103   Suspension of action by the Office.

(a) *Suspension for cause.* On request of the applicant, the Office may grant a suspension of action by the Office under this paragraph for good and sufficient cause. The Office will not suspend action if a reply by applicant to an Office action is outstanding. Any petition for suspension of action under this paragraph must specify a period of suspension not exceeding six months. Any petition for suspension of action under this paragraph must also include:


(1) A showing of good and sufficient cause for suspension of action; and


(2) The fee set forth in § 1.17(g), unless such cause is the fault of the Office.


(b) *Limited suspension of action in a continued prosecution application (CPA) filed under § 1.53(d).* On request of the applicant, the Office may grant a suspension of action by the Office under this paragraph in a continued prosecution application filed under § 1.53(d) for a period not exceeding three months. Any request for suspension of action under this paragraph must be filed with the request for an application filed under § 1.53(d), specify the period of suspension, and include the processing fee set forth in § 1.17(i).


(c) *Limited suspension of action after a request for continued examination (RCE) under § 1.114.* On request of the applicant, the Office may grant a suspension of action by the Office under this paragraph after the filing of a request for continued examination in compliance with § 1.114 for a period not exceeding three months. Any request for suspension of action under this paragraph must be filed with the request for continued examination under § 1.114, specify the period of suspension, and include the processing fee set forth in § 1.17(i).


(d) *Deferral of examination.* On request of the applicant, the Office may grant a deferral of examination under the conditions specified in this paragraph for a period not extending beyond three years from the earliest filing date for which a benefit is claimed under title 35, United States Code. A request for deferral of examination under this paragraph must include the publication fee set forth in § 1.18(d) and the processing fee set forth in § 1.17(i). A request for deferral of examination under this paragraph will not be granted unless:


(1) The application is an original utility or plant application filed under § 1.53(b) or resulting from entry of an international application into the national stage after compliance with § 1.495;


(2) The applicant has not filed a nonpublication request under § 1.213(a), or has filed a request under § 1.213(b) to rescind a previously filed nonpublication request;


(3) The application is in condition for publication as provided in § 1.211(c); and


(4) The Office has not issued either an Office action under 35 U.S.C. 132 or a notice of allowance under 35 U.S.C. 151.


(e) *Notice of suspension on initiative of the Office.* The Office will notify applicant if the Office suspends action by the Office on an application on its own initiative.


(f) *Suspension of action for public safety or defense.* The Office may suspend action by the Office by order of the Director if the following conditions are met:


(1) The application is owned by the United States;


(2) Publication of the invention may be detrimental to the public safety or defense; and


(3) The appropriate department or agency requests such suspension.



---

[N] [65 FR 50104, Aug. 16, 2000, as amended at 65 FR 57056, Sept. 20, 2000; 67 FR 523, Jan. 4, 2002; 69 FR 49999, Aug. 12, 2004; 69 FR 56542, Sept. 21, 2004; 78 FR 11057, Feb. 14, 2013]




