# § 210.7   Presenting items for payment.

(a) *Presenting or sending.* As provided under State law or as otherwise permitted by this section: 


(1) A Reserve Bank or a subsequent collecting bank may present an item for payment or send the item for presentment and payment; and 


(2) A Reserve Bank may send an item to a subsequent collecting bank with authority to present it for payment or to send it for presentment and payment. 


(b) *Place of presentment.* A Reserve Bank or subsequent collecting bank may present an item—


(1) At a place requested by the paying bank; 


(2) In accordance with § 229.36 of this chapter (Regulation CC);


(3) At a place requested by the nonbank payor, if the item is payable by a nonbank payor other than through or at a paying bank;


(4) Under a special collection agreement consistent with this subpart; or 


(5) Through a clearinghouse and subject to its rules and practices. 


(c) *Presenting or sending direct.* A Reserve Bank or subsequent collecting bank may, with respect to an item that may be sent to the paying bank or nonbank payor in the Reserve Bank's District—


(1) Present or send the item direct to the paying bank, or to a place requested by the paying bank; or 


(2) If the item is payable by a nonbank payor other than through a paying bank, present it direct to the nonbank payor. Documents, securities, or other papers accompanying a noncash item shall not be delivered to the nonbank payor before the item is paid unless the sender specifically authorizes delivery. 


(d) *Item sent to another district.* A Reserve Bank receiving an item that may be sent to a paying bank or nonbank payor in another District ordinarily sends the item to the Reserve Bank of the other District, but with the agreement of the other Reserve Bank, may present or send the item as if it were sent to a paying bank or nonbank payor in its own District.



---

[N] [45 FR 68634, Oct. 16, 1980, as amended at 53 FR 21985, June 13, 1988; 62 FR 48172, Sept. 15, 1997; Reg. J, 83 FR 61520, Nov. 30, 2018]




