# § 23.503   Portfolio compression.

(a) *Portfolio compression with swap dealers and major swap participants*—(1) *Bilateral offset.* Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall establish, maintain, and follow written policies and procedures for terminating each fully offsetting swap between a swap dealer or major swap participant and another swap dealer or major swap participant in a timely fashion, when appropriate.


(2) *Bilateral compression.* Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall establish, maintain, and follow written policies and procedures for periodically engaging in bilateral portfolio compression exercises, when appropriate, with each counterparty that is also a swap dealer or major swap participant.


(3) *Multilateral compression.* Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall establish, maintain, and follow written policies and procedures for periodically engaging in multilateral portfolio compression exercises, when appropriate, with each counterparty that is also a swap dealer or major swap participant. Such policies and procedures shall include:


(i) Policies and procedures for participation in all multilateral portfolio compression exercises required by Commission regulation or order; and


(ii) Evaluation of multilateral portfolio compression exercises that are initiated, offered, or sponsored by any third party.


(b) *Portfolio compression with counterparties other than swap dealers and major swap participants.* Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall establish, maintain, and follow written policies and procedures for periodically terminating fully offsetting swaps and for engaging in portfolio compression exercises with respect to swaps in which its counterparty is an entity other than a swap dealer or major swap participant, to the extent requested by any such counterparty.


(c) *Portfolio compression of cleared swaps.* Nothing in this section shall apply to a swap that is cleared by a derivatives clearing organization.


(d) *Recordkeeping.* (1) Each swap dealer and major swap participant shall make and maintain a complete and accurate record of each bilateral offset and each bilateral or multilateral portfolio compression exercise in which it participates.


(2) All records required to be maintained pursuant to this section shall be maintained in accordance with § 23.203 and shall be made available promptly upon request to any representative of the Commission or any applicable prudential regulator, or with regard to swaps defined in section 1a(47)(A)(v) of the Act, to any representative of the Commission, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any applicable prudential regulator.



---

[N] [77 FR 55960, Sept. 11, 2012]




