# § 1128.720   Program income use.

(a) *OMB guidance.* OMB guidance in 2 CFR 200.307(e) identifies alternative ways that a Federal agency might specify that recipients use program income they earn.


(b) *DoD implementation.* A DoD Component's general terms and conditions must specify how recipients are to use program income under awards using those terms and conditions.


(1) The terms and conditions may specify one of the following ways for recipients to use program income:


(i) *Addition.* A recipient under this alternative adds program income to the total amount of the approved budget, which consists of the Federal share of funding and any required matching or cost sharing.


(ii) *Deduction.* A recipient using this alternative subtracts program income from total allowable costs to determine net allowable costs for purposes of determining the Federal share of funding and any required cost sharing or matching.


(iii) *Cost sharing or matching.* Under this alternative, a recipient counts program income toward its required cost sharing or matching.


(iv) *Combination.* The fourth alternative is a combination of any of the three alternatives described in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section. For example, an agency might specify one alternative to be used for program income up to a dollar limit and a second alternative for any program income beyond that amount.


(2) For research awards, absent compelling reasons to do otherwise for a specific set of general terms and conditions, a DoD Component must specify the addition alternative described in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.


(3) For general terms and conditions of other awards, a Component may specify any of the alternatives described in paragraph (a) of this section. However, the cost sharing or matching alternative is best used as part of a combination alternative, as described in paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section, unless the DoD Component knows at the time awards are made how much program income recipients will earn in relation to the amounts of their required cost sharing or matching.


(c) *Award terms and conditions.* (1) *Default—addition alternative.* In accordance with the DoD implementation in paragraph (b) of this section, a DoD Component must use the wording provided in appendix G to this part as Section E of FMS Article VII in:


(i) Research awards; and


(ii) Other awards for which it elects to specify the addition alternative for use of program income.


(2) *Deduction alternative.* A DoD Component electing to specify the deduction alternative for use of program income must modify the wording appendix G to this part provides for Section E by:


(i) Substituting the following wording for the wording of paragraph E.1: “1. You must use any program income that you earn during the period of performance under this award as a deduction from the total approved budget of this award. The program income must be used for the purposes and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the award.”


(ii) Including an additional paragraph E.4, such as the following, to inform recipients how the award will change if program income is deducted: “If you report program income on the Federal Financial Report (SF-425), we will recalculate the Federal share of the budget and the non-Federal share if there is one. We also will modify the award to reflect the recalculated share or shares and the amount of program income you must spend on the project, which is the difference between the originally approved and recalculated budget amounts.”


(3) *Cost-sharing or matching alternative.* A DoD Component electing to specify the cost-sharing or matching alternative for use of program income must replace the wording appendix G to this part provides for Section E with the following wording: “You must use any program income that you earn during the period of performance under this award to meet any cost-sharing or matching requirement under this award. The program income must be used for the purposes and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the award.”


(4) *A combination of alternatives.* A DoD Component electing to specify some combination of addition, deduction, and cost-sharing or matching alternatives must use wording in Section E of FMS Article VII that specifies requirements for each alternative in the combination that is consistent with the requirements specified for that alternative in paragraphs (c)(1), (2), or (3) of this section.




