# 225.7017-3   Exceptions.

DoD requires the contractor to utilize domestic photovoltaic devices in covered contracts that exceed the simplified acquisition threshold, with the following exceptions:


(a) *Qualifying country.* Qualifying country photovoltaic devices may be utilized in any covered contract, because 225.103(a)(i)(A) provides an exception to the Buy American statute for products of qualifying countries, as defined in 225.003.


(b) *Buy American—unreasonable cost.* For a covered contract that utilizes photovoltaic devices valued at less than $174,000, the exception for unreasonable cost may apply (see FAR 25.103(c)). If the cost of a foreign photovoltaic device plus 50 percent is less than the cost of a domestic photovoltaic device, then the foreign photovoltaic device may be utilized.


(c) *Trade agreements*—(1) *Free Trade Agreements.* For a covered contract that utilizes photovoltaic devices , photovoltaic devices may be utilized from a country covered under the acquisition by a Free Trade Agreement, depending upon dollar threshold (see FAR subpart 25.4).


(2) *World Trade Organization—Government Procurement Agreement.* For covered contracts that utilize photovoltaic devices that are valued at $174,000 or more, only U.S.-made photovoltaic devices, designated country photovoltaic devices, or qualifying country photovoltaic devices may be utilized.



---

[N] [83 FR 62500, Dec. 4, 2018, as amended at 84 FR 72247, Dec. 31, 2019; 86 FR 74377, Dec. 30, 2021; 89 FR 20873, Mar. 26, 2024]




