# § 76.310   Truth in billing and advertising.

(a) Cable operators and direct broadcast satellite (DBS) providers shall state an aggregate price for the video programming that they provide as a clear, easy-to-understand, and accurate single line item on subscribers' bills, including on bills for legacy or grandfathered video programming service plans. If a price is introductory or limited in time, cable and DBS providers shall state on subscribers' bills the date the price ends, by disclosing either the length of time that a discounted price will be charged or the date on which a time period will end that will result in a price change for video programming, and the post-promotion rate 60 and 30 days before the end of any introductory period. Cable operators and DBS providers may complement the aggregate line item with an itemized explanation of the elements that compose that single line item.


(b) Cable operators and DBS providers that communicate a price for video programming in promotional materials shall state the aggregate price for the video programming in a clear, easy-to-understand, and accurate manner. If part of the aggregate price for video programming fluctuates based upon service location, then the provider must state where and how consumers may obtain their subscriber-specific “all-in” price (for example, electronically or by contacting a customer service or sales representative). If part or all of the aggregate price is limited in time, then the provider must state the post-promotion rate, as calculated at that time, and the duration of each rate that will be charged. Cable operators and DBS providers may complement the aggregate price with an itemized explanation of the elements that compose that aggregate price. The requirement in this paragraph (b) shall not apply to the marketing of legacy or grandfathered video programming service plans that are no longer generally available to new customers. For purposes of this section, the term “promotional material” includes communications offering video programming to consumers such as advertising and marketing.


(c) Compliance with this section is required by December 19, 2024, except that for cable operators with annual receipts of $47 million or less, compliance is not required until March 19, 2025.





---

[N] [89 FR 28679, Apr. 19, 2024, as amended at 89 FR 87984, Nov. 6, 2024]








