# ยง 3560.657   Processing and closing incentive offers.

(a) *Borrower responsibilities.* If a borrower accepts the Agency's offer of incentives, the borrower must complete the following actions:


(1) Subject to the Agency's approval, the borrower must legally restrict the use of the project in accordance with and for the number of years stated in ยง 3560.662.


(2) If the incentive offer accepted includes an equity loan, the borrower must complete an application for the equity loan, and the borrower must continue to qualify as an eligible borrower or transferee in accordance with subpart B of this part.


(3) If the incentive offer accepted includes rent increases, the borrower must follow the rent increase requirements established in subpart E of this part.


(b) *Waiting lists.* If funds for components of incentive offers are limited, the Agency will establish a waiting list of accepted incentive offers for funding in the date order that the complete prepayment request was received.


(c) *Unfunded incentive offers.* If the borrower accepts the incentive offer but the Agency is unable to fund the incentive within 15 months, the borrower may choose one of the following actions:


(1) The borrower may offer to sell the housing project in accordance with ยง 3650.659. In this case the borrower will be removed from the list of borrowers awaiting incentives.


(2) The borrower may stay on the list of borrowers awaiting incentives until the borrower's incentive offer is funded. The Agency will not negotiate the incentive offer; but, at a borrower's request, may adjust the incentive amount to reflect an updated appraisal, loan balance, and terms of third party financing.


(3) The borrower may withdraw the prepayment request and be removed from the list of borrowers awaiting incentives and either continue operating the housing project for program purposes and in accordance with Agency requirements or continue processing their prepayment process in accordance with ยง 3560.658. If the borrower chooses to withdraw their request, the borrower may resubmit an updated prepayment request, at any time, and repeat the prepayment process in accordance with this subpart.


(4) The borrower may elect to obtain a third-party equity loan provided rents will not exceed comparable rents in the market area. 




