# ยง 886.313   Other Federal requirements.

Participation in this program requires: 


(a) Compliance with (1) title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, Executive Orders 11063 and 11246, and Section 3 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968, and (2) all rules, regulations, and requirements issued pursuant thereto. 


(b) Submission of an approvable Affirmative Fair Housing Marketing Plan. 


(c) For projects where rehabilitation is to be completed by or at the direction of the owner, compliance with: 


(1) The Clean Air Act and Federal Water Pollution Control Act; 


(2) Where the property contains nine or more units to be assisted, the requirement to pay not less than the wage rates prevailing in the locality, as predetermined by the Secretary of Labor under the Davis-Bacon Act (40 U.S.C. 276a-276a-5) to all laborers and mechanics (other than volunteers under the conditions set out in 24 CFR part 70) who are employed in the rehabilitation work, and the labor standards provisions contained in the Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act, Copeland Anti-Kickback Act, and implementing regulations of the Department of Labor.


(3) Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973; 


(4) The National Historic Preservation Act (Pub. L. 89-665); 


(5) The Archeological and Historic Preservation Act of 1974 (Pub. L. 93-291); 


(6) Executive Order 11593 on Protection and Enhancement of the Cultural Environment, including the procedures prescribed by the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation at 36 CFR part 800; 


(7) The National Environmental Policy Act of 1969; 


(8) The Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973; 


(9) Executive Order 11988, Flood Plains Management; 


(10) Executive Order 11990, Protection of Wetlands. 



---

[N] [44 FR 70365, Dec. 6, 1979, as amended at 57 FR 14760, Apr. 22, 1992]




