# § 721.10728   2-Propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-hydroxyethyl esters, telomers with C18-26-alkyl acrylate, 1-dodecanethiol, N-(hydroxymethyl)-2-methyl-2-propenamide, polyfluorooctyl methacrylate, 2,2′-[1,2-diazenediylbis(1-methylethylidene)]bis[4,5-dihydro-1H-imidazole]hydrochloride (1:2)-initiated (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as 2-propenoic acid, 2-methyl-, 2-hydroxyethyl esters, telomers with C18-26-alkyl acrylate, 1-dodecanethiol, N-(hydroxymethyl)-2-methyl-2-propenamide, polyfluorooctyl methacrylate, 2,2′-[1,2-diazenediylbis(1-methylethylidene)]bis[4,5-dihydro-1H-imidazole]hydrochloride (1:2)-initiated (PMN P-12-241) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Hazard communication program.* A significant new use of this substance is any manner or method of manufacture or processing associated with any use of this substance without providing risk notification as follows:


(A) If as a result of the test data required under the TSCA section 5(e) consent order for this substance, the employer becomes aware that this substance may present a risk of injury to human health or the environment, the employer must incorporate this new information, and any information on methods for protecting against such risk, into a SDS as described in § 721.72(c) within 90 days from the time the employer becomes aware of the new information. If this substance is not being manufactured, processed, or used in the employer's workplace, the employer must add the new information to a SDS before the substance is reintroduced into the workplace.


(B) The employer must ensure that persons who will receive the PMN substance from the employer, or who have received the PMN substance from the employer within 5 years from the date the employer becomes aware of the new information described in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section, are provided an SDS containing the information required under paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section within 90 days from the time the employer becomes aware of the new information.


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(k) (a significant new use is any use other than as allowed by the section 5(e) consent order which includes analysis and reporting and limitations of maximum impurity levels of certain fluorinated impurities), (q), and (t).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (h), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.



---

[N] [79 FR 39281, July 9, 2014]




