# § 4.2   How does FDA define key terms and phrases in this subpart?

The terms listed in this section have the following meanings for purposes of this subpart:


*Biological product* has the meaning set forth in § 3.2(d) of this chapter. A biological product also meets the definitions of either a drug or device as these terms are defined under this section.


*Combination product* has the meaning set forth in § 3.2(e) of this chapter.


*Constituent part* is a drug, device, or biological product that is part of a combination product.


*Co-packaged combination product* has the meaning set forth in § 3.2(e)(2) of this chapter.


*Current good manufacturing practice operating system* means the operating system within an establishment that is designed and implemented to address and meet the current good manufacturing practice requirements for a combination product.


*Current good manufacturing practice requirements* means the requirements set forth under § 4.3(a) through (d).






*Device* has the meaning set forth in

§ 3.2(f) of this chapter. A device that is a constituent part of a combination product is considered a finished device

within the meaning of the QS regulation. 




*Drug* has the meaning set forth in § 3.2(g) of this chapter. A drug that is a constituent part of a combination product is considered a drug product within the meaning of the drug CGMPs.


*Drug CGMPs* refers to the current good manufacturing practice regulations set forth in parts 210 and 211 of this chapter.


*HCT/Ps* refers to human cell, tissue, and cellular and tissue-based products, as defined in § 1271.3(d) of this chapter. An HCT/P that is not solely regulated under section 361 of the Public Health Service Act may be a constituent part of a combination product. Such an HCT/P is subject to part 1271 of this chapter and is also regulated as a drug, device, and/or biological product.


*Manufacture* includes, but is not limited to, designing, fabricating, assembling, filling, processing, testing, labeling, packaging, repackaging, holding, and storage.




*QS regulation* refers to the quality

system regulation in part 820 of this chapter. 




*Single-entity combination product* has the meaning set forth in § 3.2(e)(1) of this chapter.


*Type of constituent part* refers to the category of the constituent part, which can be either a biological product, a device, or a drug, as these terms are defined under this section.





---

[N] [78 FR 4321, Jan. 22, 2013]






