# ยง 845.32   Petitions for reconsideration or modification of report.

(a) *Requirements.* (1) The Board will only consider petitions for reconsideration or modification of findings and determination of probable cause from a party or other person having a direct interest in an investigation.


(2) Petitions must be in writing and addressed to the NTSB Chairman. Please send your petition via email to *correspondence@ntsb.gov.* In the alternative, you may send your petition via postal mail to: NTSB Headquarters at 490 L'Enfant Plaza SW., Washington, DC 20594.


(3) Petitions must be based on the discovery of new evidence or on a showing that the Board's findings are erroneous. (i) Petitions based on the discovery of new matter shall: Identify the new matter; contain affidavits of prospective witnesses, authenticated documents, or both, or an explanation of why such substantiation is unavailable; and state why the new matter was not available prior to Board's adoption of its findings.


(ii) Petitions based on a claim of erroneous findings shall set forth in detail the grounds upon which the claim is based.


(b) *Acceptance of petitions.* The Board will not consider petitions that are repetitious of proposed findings submitted pursuant to ยง 845.13, or of positions previously advanced.


(c) *Proof of service.* (1) When a petition for reconsideration or modification is filed with the Board, copies of the petition and any supporting documentation shall be served on all other parties to the investigation or investigative hearing and proof of service shall be attached to the petition.


(2) Any party served with a copy of the petition may file comments no later than 90 days after service of the petition.


(d) *Oral presentation.* Oral presentation normally will not form a part of proceedings under this section. However, oral presentation may be permitted where a party or interested person specifically shows the written petition for reconsideration or modification is an insufficient means by which to present the party's or person's position.




