# § 339.3   Exchanges with privilege of deferring reporting of interest for Federal income tax purposes.

(a) *Tax-deferred exchanges.* Pursuant to the provisions of section 1037(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, the Secretary of the Treasury hereby grants to owners who have not been reporting the interest on their securities on an accrual basis for Federal income tax purposes the privilege of exchanging such securities for Series H bonds and of continuing to defer reporting of the interest on the securities exchanged (except interest referred to in paragraph (b)(5) of this section) for Federal income tax purposes to the taxable year in which the Series H bonds received in exchange are disposed of, are redeemed, or have reached final maturity, whichever is earlier. 
2

(b) *Rules governing the exchange.* (1) Exchange subscription Form PD 3253, completed and executed in accordance with the instructions thereon, the securities, any cash difference (see paragraph (b)(3) of this section), and any supporting evidence which may be required under the governing regulations 
3 may be presented or forwarded to any authorized agency. 
4

(2) A Series H bond issued upon exchange will be registered in the name of the owner of the securities submitted in any authorized form of registration. However, the *principal coowner* must be named as owner or coowner.


(3) The total current redemption value of the securities submitted for exchange in any one transaction must amount to $500 or more. If the total current redemption value is in an even multiple of $500, Series H bonds must be requested in that exact amount. If the total current redemption value exceeds $500, but is not in an even multiple of $500, the owner has the option of furnishing cash necessary to obtain Series H bonds of the next higher $500 multiple, or of receiving payment of the difference between the total current redemption value and the next lower multiple of $500. For example, under the rules prescribed in this circular, if the securities submitted for exchange in one transaction total $4,253.33 current redemption value, the owner may elect to:


(i) Receive $4,000 in Series H bonds and the amount of the difference, $253.33, or


(ii) Pay the difference, $246.67, necessary to obtain $4,500 in Series H bonds. 
5

(4) Any amount paid to the owner as a cash adjustment (as in paragraph (3)(i) of this section) must be treated as income for Federal income tax purposes for the year in which it is received up to an amount not in excess of the total interest on the securities exchanged. 
6

(5) Each Series H bond issued under this section will be stamped “EX” or “EXCH” to show that it was issued upon exchange. Each bond also will bear a legend showing how much of its issue price represents interest on the securities exchanged. This interest must be treated as income for Federal income tax purposes for the year in which the Series H bond is redeemed, is disposed of, or finally matures, whichever is earlier.


(6) The Series H bonds will be dated as of the first day of the month in which the securities, the exchange subscription, any necessary cash difference and supporting evidence, if any, are accepted for exchange by an authorized agency.




