# § 441.11   Continuation of FFP for institutional services.

(a) *Basic conditions for continuation of FFP.* FFP may be continued for up to 30 days after the effective date of termination or expiration of a provider agreement, if the following conditions are met: 


(1) The Medicaid payments are for beneficiaries admitted to the facility before the effective date of termination or expiration. 


(2) The State agency is making reasonable efforts to transfer those beneficiaries to other facilities or to alternate care. 


(b) *When the 30-day period begins.* The 30-day period begins on one of the following: 


(1) The effective date of termination of the facility's provider agreement by CMS; 


(2) The effective date of termination of the facility's Medicaid provider agreement by the Medicaid agency on its own volition; or 


(3) In the case of an ICF/IID, the later of—


(i) The effective date of termination or nonrenewal of the facility's provider agreement by the Medicaid agency on its own volition; or 


(ii) The date of issuance of an administrative hearing decision that upholds the agency's termination or nonrenewal action. 


(c) *Services for which FFP may be continued.* FFP may be continued for any of the following services, as defined in subpart A of part 440 of this chapter: 


(1) Inpatient hospital services. 


(2) Inpatient hospital services for individuals age 65 or older in an institution for mental diseases. 


(3) Nursing facility services for individuals age 21 or older. 


(4) Nursing facility services for individuals age 65 or older in an institution for mental diseases. 


(5) Inpatient psychiatric services for individuals under age 21. 


(6) Nursing facility services for individuals under 21. 


(7) Intermediate care facility services for individuals with intellectual disabilities. 



---

[N] [59 FR 56234, Nov. 10, 1994]




