# ยง 3006.301   Request category.

(a) *Fees.* The level of fee charged depends on the request category.


(1) *Commercial use.* A request appearing to be for commercial use will be charged the full direct costs of searching for, reviewing, and duplicating the records sought.


(2) *Educational and noncommercial scientific institutions.* A request from an educational or noncommercial scientific institution will be charged for the cost of duplication only (excluding charges for the first 100 pages). To be eligible for this category, a requester must show that the request is made under the auspices of a qualifying institution and that the records are not sought for commercial use but are in furtherance of scholarly (in the case of educational institutions) or scientific (in the case of noncommercial scientific institutions) research.


(3) *News media.* A request from a representative of the news media will be charged the cost of duplication only (excluding charges for the first 100 pages).


(4) *Other requesters.* A request from any other person will be charged the full direct cost of searching for, reviewing, and duplicating records responsive to the request, except that the first 100 pages of duplication and the first 2 hours of search/review will be furnished without charge.


(b) *Privacy Act.* A request by an individual for the individual's own records in a system of records will be charged fees as provided under the Commission's Privacy Act regulations in part 3005 of this chapter.






