# ยง 403.910   Delayed publication for payments made under product research or development agreements and clinical investigations.

(a) *General rule.* Certain research payments or other transfers of value made to a covered recipient by an applicable manufacturer under a product research or development agreement may be delayed from publication on the Web site. Publication of a payment or other transfer of value is delayed when made in connection with the following instances:


(1) Research on or development of a new drug, device, biological, or medical supply, or a new application of an existing drug, device, biological, or medical supply.


(2) Clinical investigations regarding a new drug, device, biological, or medical supply.


(b) *Research or development agreement.* The research or development agreement must include a written agreement, a research protocol, or both between the applicable manufacturer and covered recipient.


(c) *Date of publication.* Payments or other transfers of value eligible for delayed publication must be reported to CMS (in the manner required in ยง 403.904(f)) on the first reporting date following the year in which they occur, but CMS does not publicly post the payment until the first annual publication date after the earlier of the following:


(1) The date of the approval, licensure or clearance of the covered drug, device, biological, or medical supply by FDA.


(2) Four calendar years after the date the payment or other transfer of value was made.


(d) *Notification of delayed publication.* (1) An applicable manufacturer must indicate on its research report to CMS whether a payment or other transfer of value is eligible for a delay in publication. The absence of this indication in the report will result in CMS posting all payments publicly in the first year of public reporting.


(2) An applicable manufacturer must continue to indicate annually in its report that FDA approval, licensure, or clearance of the new drug, device, biological or medical supply to which the payment or other transfer of value is related, is pending.


(3) An applicable manufacturer must notify CMS during subsequent annual submissions, if the new drug, device, biological or medical supply, to which the payment is related (or the new application of the existing drug, device, biological, or medical supply), is approved by the FDA.


(4) Failure to notify CMS when FDA approval occurs may be considered failure to report, and the applicable manufacturer may be subject to civil monetary penalties.


(5) If, after 4 years from the date of a payment first appearing in a report to CMS, there is an indication in a report that the payment is subject to delayed reporting, it is reported regardless of the indication.


(e) *Confidentiality.* Information submitted and eligible for delayed publication is considered confidential and will not be subject to disclosure under 5 U.S.C. 552, or any similar Federal, State, or local law, until on or after the date on which the information made available to the public as required in this section.




