# ยง 1030.1   Authority, purpose, coverage, and effect on state laws.

(a) *Authority.* This part, known as Regulation DD, is issued by the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection to implement the Truth in Savings Act of 1991 (the act), contained in the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (12 U.S.C. 3201 *et seq.,* Public Law 102-242, 105 Stat. 2236), as amended by title X, section 1100B of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Pub. L. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376). Information-collection requirements contained in this part have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under the provisions of 44 U.S.C. 3501 *et seq.* and have been assigned OMB No. 3170-0004.


(b) *Purpose.* The purpose of this part is to enable consumers to make informed decisions about accounts at depository institutions. This part requires depository institutions to provide disclosures so that consumers can make meaningful comparisons among depository institutions.


(c) *Coverage.* This part applies to depository institutions except for credit unions. In addition, the advertising rules in ยง 1030.8 of this part apply to any person who advertises an account offered by a depository institution, including deposit brokers.


(d) *Effect on state laws.* State law requirements that are inconsistent with the requirements of the act and this part are preempted to the extent of the inconsistency. Additional information on inconsistent state laws and the procedures for requesting a preemption determination from the Bureau are set forth in appendix C of this part.


(e) *Relationship to Regulation CC.* The Director of the Bureau and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System jointly issue regulations under sections 603(d)(1), 604, 605, and 609(a) of the Expedited Funds Availability Act (12 U.S.C. 4002(d)(1), 4003, 4004, 4008(a)) that are codified within Regulation CC (12 CFR part 229).



---

[N] [76 FR 79278, Dec. 21, 2011, as amended at 84 FR 31698, July 3, 2019]




