# § 9.22   Definitions.

For purposes of this subpart, the terms in this section have the following meanings set forth in this section. Furthermore, where the Commission uses the term “acceptable” in this subpart, it is for purposes of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021, Public Law 116-260, Division FF, Title IX, section 902(c)(1)(C).


*911 fee or charge.* A fee or charge applicable to commercial mobile services, IP-enabled voice services, or other emergency communications services specifically designated by a State or taxing jurisdiction for the support or implementation of 911 services. A 911 fee or charge shall also include a fee or charge designated for the support of public safety, emergency services, or similar purposes if the purposes or allowable uses of such fee or charge include the support or implementation of 911 services.


*Diversion.* The obligation or expenditure of a 911 fee or charge for a purpose or function other than the purposes and functions designated by the Commission as acceptable pursuant to § 9.23. Diversion also includes distribution of 911 fees to a political subdivision that obligates or expends such fees for a purpose or function other than those designated as acceptable by the Commission pursuant to § 9.23.


*Other emergency communications services.* The provision of emergency information to a public safety answering point via wire or radio communications, and may include 911 and E911 service.


*State.* Any of the several States, the District of Columbia, or any territory or possession of the United States.


*State or taxing jurisdiction.* A State, political subdivision thereof, Indian Tribe, or village or regional corporation serving a region established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 *et seq.*).




