# ยง 158.2040   Biochemical pesticides residue data requirements table.

(a) *General.* Sections 158.100 through 158.130 describe how to use this table to determine the biochemical pesticides residue data requirements for a particular pesticide product and the substance that needs to be tested. These data requirements apply to all biochemical pesticides, *i.e.*, naturally occurring insect repellents and attractants, semiochemicals (e.g., insect pheromones), natural and plant growth regulators. Notes that apply to an individual test and include specific conditions, qualifications, or exceptions to the designated test are listed in paragraph (e) of this section.


(b) *Use patterns.* (1) Data are required or conditionally required for all pesticides used in or on food and for residential outdoor uses where food crops are grown. Food use patterns include products classified under the general use patterns of terrestrial food crop use, terrestrial feed crop use, aquatic food crop use, greenhouse food crop use, and indoor food use. Data are also conditionally required for aquatic nonfood use if there is direct application to water that could subsequently result in exposure to food.


(2) Data are conditionally required for nonfood uses if pesticide residues may occur in food or feed as a result of the use. Data requirements for these nonfood uses would be determined on a case-by-case basis. For example, most products used in or near kitchens require residue data for risk assessment purposes even though tolerances may not be necessary in all cases.


(c) *Key.* R = Required; CR = Conditionally required; NR = Not required; MP = Manufacturing end-use product; EP = End-use product; TEP = Typical end-use product; TGAI = Technical grade of the active ingredient; Residue of concern = the active ingredient and its metabolites, degradates, and impurities of toxicological concern; All = All of the above. Specific conditions, qualifications, or exceptions to the designated test procedures appear in paragraph (e) of this section, and apply to the individual tests in the following table:


(d) *Data requirements table.* The following table shows the data requirements for biochemical pesticides residue. The test notes are shown in paragraph (e) of this section.


(e) *Test notes.* The following test notes are applicable to the data requirements for biochemical pesticides product chemistry and are in the last column of the table contained in paragraph (d) of this section.


