# § 1.663(b)-1   Distributions in first 65 days of taxable year; scope.

(a) *Taxable years beginning after December 31, 1968*—(1) *General rule.* With respect to taxable years beginning after December 31, 1968, the fiduciary of a trust may elect under section (b) to 663 treat any amount or portion thereof that is properly paid or credited to a beneficiary within the first 65 days following the close of the taxable year as an amount that was properly paid or credited on the last day of such taxable year. 


(2) *Effect of election.* (i) An election is effective only with respect to the taxable year for which the election is made. In the case of distributions made after May 8, 1972, the amount to which the election applies shall not exceed: 


(*a*) The amount of income of the trust (as defined in § 1.643(b)-1) for the taxable year for which the election is made, or 


(*b*) The amount of distributable net income of the trust (as defined in §§ 1.643(a)-1 through 1.643(a)-7) for such taxable year, if greater, 


(ii) If an election is made with respect to a taxable year of a trust, this section shall apply only to those amounts which are properly paid or credited within the first 65 days following such year and which are so designated by the fiduciary in his election. Any amount considered under section 663(b) as having been distributed in the preceding taxable year shall be so treated for all purposes. For example, in determining the beneficiary's tax liability, such amount shall be considered as having been received by the beneficiary in his taxable year in which or with which the last day of the preceding taxable year of the trust ends. 


(b) *Taxable years beginning before January 1, 1969.* With respect to taxable years of a trust beginning before January 1, 1969, the fiduciary of the trust may elect under section 663(b) to treat distributions within the first 65 days following such taxable year as amounts which were paid or credited on the last day of such taxable year, if: 


(1) The trust was in existence prior to January 1, 1954; 


(2) An amount in excess of the income of the immediately preceding taxable year may not (under the terms of the governing instrument) be distributed in any taxable year; and 


(3) The fiduciary elects (as provided in § 1.663(b)-2) to have section 663(b) apply. 



---

[N] [T.D. 7204, 37 FR 17135, Aug. 25, 1972]




