# § 1924.105   Planning/performing development.

(a) *General.* Planning is an evaluation of specific development for a specific site. Planning must take into consideration topography, soils, climate, adjacent land use, environmental impacts, energy efficiency, local economy, aesthetic and cultural values, public and private services, housing and social conditions, and a degree of flexibility to accommodate changing demands. All planning and performing development work is the responsibility of the applicant or developer. All development will be arranged and completed according to applicable local, state, or Federal regulations including applicable health and safety standards, environmental requirements, and requirements of this subpart. When a public authority requires inspections prior to final acceptance, written assurance by the responsible public authority of compliance with local, city, county, state or other public codes, regulations, and ordinances is required prior to final acceptance by RHS.


(1) [Reserved]


(2) *Technical Services.* [Reserved]


(i) [Reserved]


(ii) An applicant or developer for a Multiple Family Housing project or a Single Family Housing site which requires technical services under § 1924.13(a), must contract for the technical services of an architect, engineer, land surveyor, landscape architect, or site planner, as appropriate, to provide complete planning, drawings, and specifications. Such services may be provided by the applicant's or developer's “in house” staff subject to RHS concurrence. Technical services must be performed by professionals who are qualified and authorized to provide such services in the state in which the project would be developed. All technical services must be provided in accordance with the requirements of professional registration or licensing boards. At completion of all construction or completion of a phase or phases of the total project, the persons providing technical services under this section must notify the RHS field office in writing that all work has been completed in substantial conformance with the approved plans and specifications.


(iii) For developments not specifically required to have technical services under paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, such services may be required by the state director when construction of streets or installation of utilities is involved.


(3) *Drawings, specifications, contract documents, and other documentations.* Adequate drawings and specifications must be provided by the applicant or developer to RHS in sufficient detail to fully and accurately describe the proposed development. Contract documents must be prepared in accordance with § 1924.6 or, in the case of more complex construction, § 1924.13.


(b) *Single Family Housing.* Proposals for development of individual dwelling sites must meet the following requirements:


(1) *Site development design requirements.* Exhibit B (available in any RHS field office) will be used as a minimum by applicants or developers in preparing proposals and supporting documents for Single Family Housing loans, in addition to specific requirements made in this subpart.


(2) [Reserved]


(c) *Multiple Family Housing.* Exhibit C (available in any RHS office) should be used as a guide by the applicant or developer in preparing a proposal and supporting documents for multiple family housing projects.




