# ยง 301.100   Membership.

(a) *Technical Panel membership.* The Technical Panel established by section 113(h)(3)(A) of the NTIA Organization Act (47 U.S.C. 923(h)(3)(A)) shall be composed of three (3) members, to be appointed as follows:


(1) One member to be appointed by the Director of OMB;


(2) One member to be appointed by the Assistant Secretary, with the approval of the Secretary of Commerce; and


(3) One member to be appointed by the Chairman of the Commission.


(b) *Qualifications.* (1) Each member of the Technical Panel shall be a radio engineer or a technical expert.


(2) The Assistant Secretary, in consultation with the Director of OMB and the Chairman of the Commission, may impose or suggest additional qualifications for one or more members of the Technical Panel as are necessary pursuant to section 113(g)(6) of the NTIA Organization Act (47 U.S.C. 923(g)(6)), including, but not limited to, the following:


(i) The member must have the appropriate and current security clearances to enable access to any classified or other sensitive information that may be associated with or relevant to agency Transition Plans;


(ii) The member should be a Federal employee as defined in 5 U.S.C. 2105(a) or a Special Government Employee as defined in 18 U.S.C. 202(a); and


(iii) The member should have the necessary expertise to perform his or her duties.


(c) *Term.* The term of a member of the Technical Panel shall be eighteen (18) months, and no individual may serve more than one (1) consecutive term.


(d) *Vacancies.* (1) Any member of the Technical Panel appointed to fill a vacancy occurring before the expiration of the term for which the member's predecessor was appointed shall be appointed only for the remainder of that term.


(2) A member of the Technical Panel may serve after the expiration of that member's term until a successor has taken office.


(3) A vacancy shall be filled in the manner in which the original appointment was made pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.


(e) *Compensation.* (1) No member of the Technical Panel shall receive compensation for service on the Technical Panel.


(2) If any member of the Technical Panel is an employee of the agency of the official that appointed such member to the Technical Panel pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, compensation in the member's capacity as a Federal employee shall not be considered compensation under paragraph (e)(1) of this section.




