# § 541.600   Amount of salary required.

(a) *Standard salary level.* To qualify as an exempt executive, administrative, or professional employee under section 13(a)(1) of the Act, an employee must be compensated on a salary basis at a rate per week of not less than the amount set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section, exclusive of board, lodging or other facilities, unless paragraph (b) or (c) of this section applies. Administrative and professional employees may also be paid on a fee basis, as defined in § 541.605.


(1) Beginning on July 1, 2024, $844 per week (the 20th percentile of weekly earnings of full-time nonhourly workers in the lowest-wage Census Region and/or retail industry nationally).


(2) Beginning on January 1, 2025, $1,128 per week (the 35th percentile of weekly earnings of full-time nonhourly workers in the lowest-wage Census Region).


(3) As of July 1, 2027, the level calculated pursuant to § 541.607(b)(1).


(b) *Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, Puerto Rico, U.S. Virgin Islands.* To qualify as an exempt executive, administrative, or professional employee under section 13(a)(1) of the Act, an employee in the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, Puerto Rico, or the U.S. Virgin Islands employed by employers other than the Federal Government must be compensated on a salary basis at a rate of not less than $455 per week, exclusive of board, lodging or other facilities. Administrative and professional employees may also be paid on a fee basis, as defined in § 541.605.


(c) *American Samoa.* To qualify as an exempt executive, administrative, or professional employee under section 13(a)(1) of the Act, an employee in American Samoa employed by employers other than the Federal Government must be compensated on a salary basis at a rate of not less than $380 per week, exclusive of board, lodging or other facilities. Administrative and professional employees may also be paid on a fee basis, as defined in § 541.605.


(d) *Frequency of payment.* The salary level requirement may be translated into equivalent amounts for periods longer than one week. For example, the $1,128 per week requirement described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section would be met if the employee is compensated biweekly on a salary basis of not less than $2,256, semimonthly on a salary basis of not less than $2,444, or monthly on a salary basis of not less than $4,888. However, the shortest period of payment that will meet this compensation requirement is one week.


(e) *Alternative salary level for academic administrative employees.* In the case of academic administrative employees, the salary level requirement also may be met by compensation on a salary basis at a rate at least equal to the entrance salary for teachers in the educational establishment by which the employee is employed, as provided in § 541.204(a)(1).


(f) *Hourly rate for computer employees.* In the case of computer employees, the compensation requirement also may be met by compensation on an hourly basis at a rate not less than $27.63 an hour, as provided in § 541.400(b).


(g) *Exceptions to the standard salary criteria.* In the case of professional employees, the compensation requirements in this section shall not apply to employees engaged as teachers (*see* § 541.303); employees who hold a valid license or certificate permitting the practice of law or medicine or any of their branches and are actually engaged in the practice thereof (*see* § 541.304); or to employees who hold the requisite academic degree for the general practice of medicine and are engaged in an internship or resident program pursuant to the practice of the profession (*see* § 541.304). In the case of medical occupations, the exception from the salary or fee requirement does not apply to pharmacists, nurses, therapists, technologists, sanitarians, dietitians, social workers, psychologists, psychometrists, or other professions which service the medical profession.



---

[N] [89 FR 32971, Apr. 26, 2024]




