# § 404.2111   Criteria for determining when VR services will be considered to have contributed to a continuous period of 9 months.

The State VR agency may be paid for VR services if such services contribute to the individual's performance of a continuous 9-month period of SGA. The following criteria apply to individuals who received more than just evaluation services. If a State VR agency claims payment for services to an individual who received only evaluation services, it must establish that the individual's continuous period or medical recovery (if medical recovery occurred before completion of a continuous period) would not have occurred without the services provided. In applying the criteria below, we will consider services described in § 404.2114 that were initiated, coordinated or provided, including services before October 1, 1981.


(a) *Continuous period without medical recovery.* If an individual who has completed a “continuous period” of SGA has not medically recovered as of the date of completion of the period, the determination as to whether VR services contributed will depend on whether the continuous period began one year or less after VR services ended or more than one year after VR services ended.


(1) *One year or less.* Any VR services which significantly motivated or assisted the individual in returning to, or continuing in, SGA will be considered to have contributed to the continuous period.


(2) *More than one year.* (i) If the continuous period was preceded by transitional work activity (employment or self-employment which gradually evolved, with or without periodic interruption, into SGA), and that work activity began less than a year after VR services ended, any VR services which significantly motivated or assisted the individual in returning to, or continuing in, SGA will be considered to have contributed to the continuous period.


(ii) If the continuous period was not preceded by transitional work activity that began less than a year after VR services ended, VR services will be considered to have contributed to the continuous period only if it is reasonable to conclude that the work activity which constitutes a continuous period could not have occurred without the VR services (e.g., training).


(b) *Continuous period with medical recovery occurring before completion.* (1) If an individual medically recovers before a continuous period has been completed, VR services under paragraph (a) of this section will not be payable unless some VR services contributed to the medical recovery. VR services will be considered to have contributed to the medical recovery if—


(i) The individualized written rehabilitation program (IWRP) included medical services; and


(ii) The medical recovery occurred, at least in part, because of these medical services. (For example, the individual's medical recovery was based on improvement in a back condition which, at least in part, stemmed from surgery initiated, coordinated or provided under an IWRP).


(2) In some instances, the State VR agency will not have provided, initiated, or coordinated medical services. If this happens, payment for VR services may still be possible under paragraph (a) of this section if:


(i) The medical recovery was not expected by us; and


(ii) The individual's impairment is determined by us to be of such a nature that any medical services provided would not ordinarily have resulted in, or contributed to, the medical cessation.



---

[N] [48 FR 6293, Feb. 10, 1983, as amended at 59 FR 11914, Mar. 15, 1994; 83 FR 62457, Dec. 4, 2018]




