# ยง 952.24   Decisions.

(a) *Initial decision by Administrative Law Judge.* A written initial decision shall be rendered by an Administrative Law Judge as soon as practical after completion of the hearing, or after close of the record in matters heard upon the written record in lieu of an oral hearing under ยง 952.17(b)(10). The initial decision shall include findings and conclusions with the reasons therefor upon all the material issues of fact or law presented on the record, and the appropriate orders or denial thereof. The initial decision shall become the final agency decision unless an appeal is taken in accordance with ยง 952.25.


(b) *Tentative or final decision by the Judicial Officer.* When the Judicial Officer presides at the hearing he or she shall issue a final or a tentative decision. Such decision shall include findings and conclusions with the reasons therefor upon all the material issues of fact or law presented on the record, and the appropriate orders or denial thereof. The tentative decision shall become the final agency decision unless exceptions are filed in accordance with ยง 952.25.


(c) *Oral decisions.* The presiding officer may render an oral decision (an initial decision by an Administrative Law Judge, or a tentative or final decision by the Judicial Officer) at the close of the hearing when the nature of the case and the public interest warrant. A party which desires an oral decision shall notify the presiding officer and the opposing party at least 5 days prior to the date set for the hearing. Either party may submit proposed findings, conclusions, and proposed orders either orally or in writing at the conclusion of the hearing.




