# § 1253.5   Notice of new activity.

(a) Before commencing a new activity, an Enterprise must submit a notice of new activity to FHFA. An Enterprise may request prior consultation with FHFA about whether a notice of new activity is required.


(b) In support of its notice of new activity, the Enterprise shall submit thorough, complete, and specific information as described under § 1253.9(a). FHFA will evaluate the notice of new activity to determine if the submission contains sufficient information to enable the Director to determine whether the new activity is a new product subject to prior approval. Once FHFA makes the determination that the submission is complete, FHFA will notify the Enterprise that the submission is “received” for purposes of 12 U.S.C. 4541(e)(2)(B).


(c) Nothing in this regulation limits or restricts FHFA from reviewing a notice of new activity under any other applicable law, under the Director's authority to review for safety and soundness, or to determine whether the activity complies with the Enterprise's authorizing statute. FHFA may conduct such a review as part of its determination that the notice of new activity submission is complete.


(d) No later than 15 days after FHFA notifies the Enterprise that the submission is received, the Director will make a determination on the notice of new activity and will notify the Enterprise accordingly. If the Director determines that the new activity is a new product, the Enterprise must elect to either submit a request for prior approval of the new product under § 1253.6 or discontinue its plan to offer the new product to the market.


(e) If the Director determines that the new activity is not a new product, or if after the passage of 15 days the Director does not make a determination whether the new activity is a new product, the Enterprise may commence the new activity. The Director may establish terms, conditions, or limitations on the Enterprise's engagement in the new activity as the Director determines to be appropriate and with which the Enterprise must comply in order to engage in the new activity.


(f) If the Director does not make a determination within the 15-day period, the absence of such determination does not limit or restrict the Director's safety and soundness authority or the Director's authority to review the new activity to confirm that the activity is consistent with the Enterprise's authorizing statute.






