# § 1.108(i)-0   Definitions and effective/applicability dates.

(a) *Definitions.* For purposes of regulations under section 108(i)—


(1) *Acquisition.* An *acquisition,* with respect to any applicable debt instrument, includes an acquisition of the debt instrument for cash or other property, the exchange of the debt instrument for another debt instrument (including an exchange resulting from a modification of the debt instrument), the exchange of the debt instrument for corporate stock or a partnership interest, the contribution of the debt instrument to capital, the complete forgiveness of the indebtedness by the holder of the debt instrument, and a direct or an indirect acquisition within the meaning of § 1.108-2.


(2) *Applicable debt instrument.* An *applicable debt instrument* is a debt instrument that was issued by a C corporation or any other person in connection with the conduct of a trade or business by such person. In the case of an intercompany obligation (as defined in § 1.1502-13(g)(2)(ii)), *applicable debt instrument* includes only an instrument for which COD income is realized upon the instrument's deemed satisfaction under § 1.1502-13(g)(5).


(3) *C corporation issuer. C corporation issuer* means a C corporation that issues a debt instrument with any deferred OID deduction.


(4) *C corporation partner.* A *C corporation partner* is a C corporation that is a direct or indirect partner of an electing partnership or a related partnership.


(5) *COD income. COD income* means income from the discharge of indebtedness, as determined under sections 61(a)(12) and 108(a) and the regulations under those sections.


(6) *COD income amount.* A *COD income amount* is a partner's distributive share of COD income with respect to an applicable debt instrument of an electing partnership.


(7) *Debt instrument. Debt instrument* means a bond, debenture, note, certificate, or any other instrument or contractual arrangement constituting indebtedness (within the meaning of section 1275(a)(1)).


(8) *Deferral period.* For a reacquisition that occurs in 2009, *deferral period* means the taxable year of the reacquisition and the four taxable years following such taxable year. For a reacquisition that occurs in 2010, *deferral period* means the taxable year of the reacquisition and the three taxable years following such taxable year.


(9) *Deferred amount.* A *deferred amount* is the portion of a partner's COD income amount with respect to an applicable debt instrument that is deferred under section 108(i).


(10) *Deferred COD income. Deferred COD income* means COD income that is deferred under section 108(i).


(11) *Deferred item.* A *deferred item* is any item of deferred COD income or deferred OID deduction that has not been previously taken into account under section 108(i).


(12) *Deferred OID deduction.* A *deferred OID deduction* means an otherwise allowable deduction for OID that is deferred under section 108(i)(2) with respect to a debt instrument issued (or treated as issued under section 108(e)(4)) in a debt-for-debt exchange described in section 108(i)(2)(A) or a deemed debt-for-debt exchange described in § 1.108(i)-3(a).


(13) *Deferred section 465 amount.* A *deferred section 465 amount* is described in paragraph (d)(3) of § 1.108(i)-2.


(14) *Deferred section 752 amount.* A *deferred section 752 amount* is described in paragraph (b)(3) of § 1.108(i)-2.


(15) *Direct partner.* A *direct partner* is a person that owns a direct interest in a partnership.


(16) *Electing corporation.* An *electing corporation* is a C corporation with deferred COD income by reason of a section 108(i) election.


(17) *Electing entity.* An *electing entity* is an entity that is a taxpayer that makes an election under section 108(i).


(18) *Electing member.* An *electing member* is an electing corporation that is a member of an affiliated group that files a consolidated return.


(19) *Electing partnership.* An *electing partnership* is a partnership that makes an election under section 108(i).


(20) *Electing S corporation.* An *electing S corporation* is an S corporation that makes an election under section 108(i).


(21) *Included amount.* An *included amount* is the portion of a partner's COD income amount with respect to an applicable debt instrument that is not deferred under section 108(i) and is included in the partner's distributive share of partnership income for the taxable year of the partnership in which the reacquisition occurs.


(22) *Inclusion period.* The *inclusion period* is the five taxable years following the last taxable year of the deferral period.


(23) *Indirect partner.* An *indirect partne*r is a person that owns an interest in a partnership through an S corporation and/or one or more partnerships.


(24) *Issuing entity.* An *issuing entity* is any entity that is—


(i) A related partnership;


(ii) A related S corporation;


(iii) An electing partnership that issues a debt instrument (or is treated as issuing a debt instrument under section 108(e)(4)) in a debt-for-debt exchange described in section 108(i)(2)(A) or a deemed debt-for-debt exchange described in § 1.108(i)-3(a); or


(iv) An electing S corporation that issues a debt instrument (or is treated as issuing a debt instrument under section 108(e)(4)) in a debt-for-debt exchange described in section 108(i)(2)(A) or a deemed debt-for-debt exchange described in § 1.108(i)-3(a).


(25) *OID. OID* means original issue discount, as determined under sections 1271 through 1275 (and the regulations under those sections). If the amount of OID with respect to a debt instrument is less than a de minimis amount as determined under § 1.1273-1(d), the OID is treated as zero for purposes of section 108(i)(2).


(26) *Reacquisition.* A *reacquisition,* with respect to any applicable debt instrument, is any event occurring after December 31, 2008 and before January 1, 2011, that causes COD income with respect to such applicable debt instrument, including any acquisition of the debt instrument by the debtor that issued (or is otherwise the obligor under) the debt instrument or a person related to such debtor (within the meaning of section 108(i)(5)(A)).


(27) *Related partnership.* A *related partnership* is a partnership that is related to the electing entity (within the meaning of section 108(i)(5)(A)) and that issues a debt instrument in a debt-for-debt exchange described in section 108(i)(2)(A) or a deemed debt-for-debt exchange described in § 1.108(i)-3(a).


(28) *Related S corporation.* A *related S corporation* is an S corporation that is related to the electing entity (within the meaning of section 108(i)(5)(A)) and that issues a debt instrument in a debt-for-debt exchange described in section 108(i)(2)(A) or a deemed debt-for-debt exchange described in § 1.108(i)-3(a).


(29) *Separate interest.* A *separate interest* is a direct interest in an electing partnership or in a partnership or S corporation that is a direct or indirect partner of an electing partnership.


(30) *S corporation partner.* An *S corporation partner* is an S corporation that is a direct or indirect partner of an electing partnership or a related partnership.


(b) *Effective/Applicability dates*—(1) *In general.* The rules of this section, § 1.108(i)-1, and § 1.108(i)-2, apply on or after July 2, 2013, to reacquisitions of applicable debt instruments in taxable years ending after December 31, 2008. In addition, the rules of § 1.108(i)-3 apply on or after July 2, 2013, to debt instruments issued after December 31, 2008, in connection with reacquisitions of applicable debt instruments in taxable years ending after December 31, 2008.


(2) *Prior periods.* For rules applying before July 2, 2013, see § 1.108(i)-0T, § 1.108(i)-1T, § 1.108(i)-2T, and § 1.108(i)-3T, as contained in 26 CFR part 1, revised April 1, 2013.



---

[N] [T.D. 9622, 78 FR 39986, July 3, 2013; 78 FR 48607, Aug. 9, 2013]




