# ยง 700.18   Limitations on placing rated orders.

(a) *General limitations.* (1) A person may not place a rated order pursuant to this part unless the person is in receipt of a rated order, has been explicitly authorized to do so by the Department of Commerce or a Delegate Agency or is otherwise permitted to do so by this part.


(2) Rated orders may not be used to obtain:


(i) Delivery on a date earlier than needed;


(ii) A greater quantity of the item than needed, except to obtain a minimum procurable quantity;


(iii) Items in advance of the receipt of a rated order, except as specifically authorized by the Department of Commerce (see ยง 700.51(c) for information on obtaining authorization for a priority rating in advance of a rated order); or




(iv) Any of the following items unless specific priority rating authority has been obtained from a Delegate Agency or the Department of Commerce:


(A) Items for plant improvement, expansion, or construction, unless they will be physically incorporated into a construction project covered by a rated order; or




(B) Production or construction equipment or items to be used for the manufacture of production equipment (for information on requesting priority rating authority, see ยง 700.51).




(v) Any items related to the development of chemical or biological warfare capabilities or the production of chemical or biological weapons, unless such development or production has been authorized by the President or the Secretary of Defense.


(3) Separate rated orders may not be placed solely for obtaining minimum procurable quantities on each order if the minimum procurable quantity would be sufficient to cover more than one rated order.


(b) *Specific item limitations.* Notwithstanding any authorization or requirement to place a rated order stated elsewhere in this part, no person may place a rated order to obtain the following items unless such order is authorized by an official action of the Department of Commerce.


(1) Copper raw materials.


(2) Crushed stone.


(3) Gravel.


(4) Sand.


(5) Scrap.


(6) Slag.


(7) Steam heat, central.


(8) Waste paper.



---

[N] [79 FR 47566, Aug. 14, 2014, as amended at 89 FR 58972, July 22, 2024]




