# § 1.6050X-1   Information reporting for fines, penalties, and other amounts by governments, governmental entities, and nongovernmental entities treated as governmental entities.

(a) *Information reporting requirement.* The appropriate official, as defined in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, of a government, as defined in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, a governmental entity, as defined in paragraph (f)(3) of this section, or nongovernmental entity treated as a governmental entity, as defined in paragraph (f)(4) of this section, that is a party to a suit or agreement to which section 6050X(a)(1) and (a)(2) applies, must—


(1) File an information return, as described in paragraph (b) of this section, if the aggregate amount the payor, as defined in paragraph (f)(5) of this section, is required to pay pursuant to all court orders (orders) and settlement agreements (agreements), relating to the violation of any law, or the investigation or inquiry into the potential violation of any law, equals or exceeds the threshold amount provided in paragraph (f)(6) of this section;


(2) Furnish a written statement as described in paragraph (c) of this section to each payor; and


(3) Request the payor's taxpayer identification number (TIN) if it is not already known, and notify the payor that the law requires the payor to furnish a TIN for inclusion on the information return and that the payor may be subject to a penalty for failure to furnish the TIN. See sections 6723, 6724(d)(3), and § 301.6723-1 of this chapter. The TIN may be requested in any manner, and the payor may provide the TIN in any manner, including orally, in writing, or electronically. If the TIN is furnished in writing, no particular form is required. Form W-9, Request for Taxpayer Identification Number and Certification, may be used, or the request may be incorporated into documents related to the order or agreement.


(b) *Requirement to file return*—(1) *Content of information return.* The information return must provide the following:


(i) The amount required to be paid to, or at the direction of, a government or governmental entity, pursuant to section 6050X(a)(1)(A), as a result of the orders and/or agreements;


(ii) The separate amounts required to be paid as restitution, remediation, or to come into compliance with a law, as described in section 6050X(a)(1)(B) and (C), as a result of the orders and/or agreements;


(iii) The payor's TIN; and


(iv) Any additional information required by the information return and the related instructions.


(2) *Form and manner of reporting.* The appropriate official required to file an information return, under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, must file Form 1098-F, Fines, Penalties, and Other Amounts, or any successor form, as provided by the instructions, with Form 1096, Annual Summary and Transmittal of U.S. Information Returns.


(3) *Multiple orders and/or agreements.* The appropriate official must file only one Form 1098-F for amounts required to be paid as a result of multiple orders and/or agreements with respect to the violation, investigation, or inquiry.


(4) *Time of reporting.* Returns required to be made under paragraph (a) of this section must be filed with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) on or before February 28 (March 31 if filed electronically) of the year following the calendar year in which the orders and/or agreements become binding under applicable law, determined without regard to whether all appeals have been exhausted or the time for filing an appeal has expired.


(c) *Requirement to furnish written statement*—(1) *In general.* The appropriate official must furnish a written statement to each payor for which it is required to file an information return under paragraphs (a)(1) and (b) of this section. The written statement must include:


(i) The information that was reported to the IRS relating to such payor; and


(ii) A legend that identifies the statement as important tax information that is being furnished to the IRS.


(2) *Copy of the Form 1098-F.* The appropriate official may satisfy the requirement of this paragraph (c) by furnishing a copy of the Form 1098-F, or any successor form, filed regarding the payor, or another document that contains the information required by paragraph (c)(1) of this section if the document conforms to applicable revenue procedures or other guidance relating to substitute statements. See § 601.601 of this chapter.


(3) *Time for furnishing written statement.* The appropriate official must furnish the written statement to the payor on or before January 31 of the year following the calendar year in which the order or agreement becomes binding under applicable law, determined without regard to whether all appeals have been exhausted or the time for filing an appeal has expired.


(d) *Rules for multiple payors*—(1) *Multiple payors—individual liability.* If, pursuant to an order or agreement, multiple individually liable payors are liable to pay, for the violation of any law, or the investigation or inquiry into the potential violation of any law, an amount that, in the aggregate, equals, or exceeds, the threshold amount under paragraph (f)(6) of this section, the appropriate official must file an information return under paragraphs (a)(1) and (b) of this section to report the amount required to be paid by each payor, even if a payor's payment liability is less than the threshold amount. The appropriate official must furnish a written statement, under paragraph (c) of this section, to each payor. If more than one person, as defined in section 7701(a)(1), is a party to an order or agreement, there is no information reporting requirement, or requirement to furnish a written statement, with respect to any person who does not have a payment obligation or obligation for costs to provide services or to provide property.


(2) *Multiple payors—joint and several liability.* If, pursuant to an order or agreement, multiple payors are jointly and severally liable to pay, for the violation of any law, or the investigation or inquiry into the potential violation of any law, an amount that, in the aggregate, equals or exceeds the threshold amount under paragraph (f)(6) of this section, the appropriate official must file an information return, under paragraphs (a)(1) and (b) of this section for each of the jointly and severally liable payors. Each information return must report all amounts required to be paid by all of the payors pursuant to the order or agreement. The appropriate official must furnish a written statement, under paragraph (c) of this section, to each of the jointly and severally liable payors.


(e) *Payment amount not identified.* If some or all of the payment amount is not identified, as described in § 1.162-21(b)(2)(iii), for paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section, the appropriate official must file an information return, and furnish the written statement to the payor, as provided by the instructions to Form 1098-F, or any successor form, including instructions as to the amounts (if any) to include on Form 1098-F, only if the government or governmental entity reasonably expects that the aggregate amount required to be paid or incurred pursuant to the order or agreement, relating to the violation of any law, or the investigation or inquiry into the potential violation of any law, will equal or exceed the threshold amount under paragraph (f)(6) of this section.


(f) *Definitions.* The following definitions apply under this section:


(1) *Appropriate official*—(i) *One government or governmental entity.* If the government or governmental entity has not assigned one of its officers or employees to comply with the reporting requirements of paragraph (a), (b), and (c) of this section, the term *appropriate official* means the officer or employee of a government or governmental entity having control of the suit, investigation, or inquiry. If the government or governmental entity has assigned one of its officers or employees to comply with the reporting requirements of paragraph (a), (b), and (c) of this section, such officer or employee is the appropriate official.


(ii) *More than one government or governmental entity*—(A) *In general.* If more than one government or governmental entity is a party to an order or agreement, only the appropriate official of the government or governmental entity listed first on the most recently executed order or agreement is responsible for complying with all reporting requirements under paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section, unless another appropriate official is appointed by agreement under paragraph (f)(1)(ii)(B) of this section.


(B) *By agreement.* The governments or governmental entities that are parties to an order or agreement may agree to appoint one or more other appropriate officials to be responsible for complying with the information reporting requirements of paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section.


(2) *Government.* For purposes of this section, *government* means the government of the United States, a State, the District of Columbia, or a political subdivision (such as a local government unit) of any of the foregoing.


(3) *Governmental entity.* For purposes of this section, *governmental entity* means—


(i) A corporation or other entity serving as an agency or instrumentality of a government (as defined in paragraph (f)(2) of this section), or


(ii) A nongovernmental entity treated as a governmental entity as described in paragraph (f)(4) of this section.


(4) *Nongovernmental entity treated as governmental entity.* For purposes of this section, the definition of nongovernmental entity treated as a governmental entity as set forth in § 1.162-21(e)(3) applies but does not include a nongovernmental entity of a territory of the United States, including American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, or the U.S. Virgin Islands, a foreign country, or an Indian tribe.


(5) *Payor.* The payor is the person, as defined in section 7701(a)(1), which, pursuant to an order or agreement, has paid or incurred, or is liable to pay or incur, an amount to, or at the direction of, a government or governmental entity in relation to the violation or potential violation of any law. In general, the payor will be the person to which section 162(f) and § 1.162-21 of the regulations apply.


(6) *Threshold amount.* The *threshold amount* is $50,000.


(g) *Applicability date.* The rules of this section apply only to orders and agreements, pursuant to suits and agreements, which become binding under applicable law on or after January 1, 2022, determined without regard to whether all appeals have been exhausted or the time for filing an appeal has expired.





---

[N] [T.D. 9946, 86 FR 4989, Jan. 19, 2021]




