# § 3175.113   Spot samples—general requirements.

(a) If an FMP is not flowing at the time that a sample is due, a sample must be taken within 15 days after flow is re-initiated. Documentation of the non-flowing status of the FMP must be entered into GARVS as required under § 3175.120(f).


(b) The operator must notify the AO at least 72 hours before obtaining a spot sample as required by this subpart, or submit a monthly or quarterly schedule of spot samples to the AO in advance of taking samples.


(c) *Sample cylinder requirements.* Sample cylinders must:


(1) Comply with API 14.1, Subsection 9.1 (incorporated by reference, see § 3175.30);


(2) Have a minimum capacity of 300 cubic centimeters; and


(3) Be cleaned before sampling under GPA 2166-05, Appendix A (incorporated by reference, see § 3175.30), or an equivalent method. The operator must maintain documentation of cleaning (see § 3170.7), have the documentation available on site during sampling, and provide it to the BLM upon request.


(d) *Spot sampling using portable gas chromatographs.* (1) Sampling separators, if used, must:


(i) Be constructed of stainless steel;


(ii) Be cleaned under GPA 2166-05, Appendix A (incorporated by reference, see § 3175.30), or an equivalent method, prior to sampling. The operator must maintain documentation of cleaning (see § 3170.7), have the documentation available on site during sampling, and provide it to the BLM upon request; and


(iii) Be operated under GPA 2166-05, Appendix B.3 (incorporated by reference, see § 3175.30).


(2) The sample port and inlet to the sample line must be purged using the gas being sampled before completing the connection between them.


(3) The portable GC must be operated, verified, and calibrated under § 3175.118.


(4) The documentation of verification or calibration required in § 3175.118(d) must be available for inspection by the BLM at the time of sampling.


(5) *Minimum number of samples and analyses.* (i) For low- and very-low-volume FMPs, at least three samples must be taken and analyzed;


(ii) For high-volume FMPs, samples must be taken and analyzed until the difference between the maximum heating value and minimum heating value calculated from three consecutive analyses is less than or equal to 16 Btu/scf;


(iii) For very-high-volume FMPs, samples must be taken and analyzed until the difference between the maximum heating value and minimum heating value calculated from three consecutive analyses is less than or equal to 8 Btu/scf.


(6) The heating value and relative density used for OGOR reporting must be:


(i) The mean heating value and relative density calculated from the three analyses required in paragraph (d)(5) of this section;


(ii) The median heating value and relative density calculated from the three analyses required in paragraph (d)(5) of this section; or


(iii) Any other method approved by the BLM.




