# § 2402.4   Procedure for requesting records.

(a) *Format of requests.*(1) *In general.* Requests for information must be made in writing and may be delivered by mail, fax, or electronic mail, as specified in § 2402.2(c). All requests must be made in English. Requests for information may specify the preferred format (including electronic formats) of the response. When a requester does not specify the preferred format of the response, OSTP shall produce scanned records to be delivered electronically.


(2) *Records in electronic formats.* (i) OSTP shall provide responsive records in the format requested if the record or records are readily reproducible by OSTP in that format. OSTP shall make reasonable efforts to maintain its records in formats that are reproducible for the purposes of disclosure. For purposes of this paragraph, the term *readily reproducible* means, with respect to electronic format, a record that can be downloaded or transferred intact to an electronic medium using equipment currently in use by the agency processing the request. Even though some records may initially be readily reproducible, the need to segregate exempt records from nonexempt records may cause the releasable material to be not readily reproducible.


(ii) In responding to a request for records, OSTP shall make reasonable efforts to search for the records in electronic format, except where such efforts would interfere with the operation of the agency's automated information system(s). For purposes of this paragraph, the term *search* means to locate, manually or by automated means, agency records for the purpose of identifying those records that are responsive to a request.


(iii) Searches for records maintained in electronic format may require the application of codes, queries, or other minor forms of programming to retrieve the requested records.


(3) *Attachment restrictions.* To protect OSTP's computer systems, OSTP will not accept files sent as email attachments or as web links. A requester may submit a request by postal mail, by fax, or in the body of the email text.


(b) *Contents.* A request must describe the records sought in sufficient detail to enable OSTP personnel to locate the records with a reasonable amount of effort. To the extent possible, a requester should include specific information that may assist OSTP personnel in identifying the requested records, such as the date, title or name, author, recipient, and subject matter of the record. In general, a requester should include as much detail as possible about the specific records or the types of records sought. Before submitting a request, a requester may contact the OSTP FOIA Public Liaison to discuss the records sought and to receive assistance in describing the records. If, after receiving a request, OSTP determines that it does not reasonably describe the records sought or that the request will be unduly burdensome to process, OSTP shall inform the requester of the additional information that is needed or how the request may be modified. A Requester attempting to reformulate or modify such a request may discuss their requests with OSTP's FOIA Public Liaison.


(c) *Date of receipt.* A request that complies with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section is deemed a “perfected request.” A perfected request is deemed received on the actual date it is received by OSTP. A request that does not comply with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section is deemed received when information sufficient to perfect the request is actually received by OSTP.


(d) *Contact information.* A request must contain contact information, such as the requester's phone number, email address, or mailing address, to enable OSTP to communicate with the requester about the request and provide released records. If OSTP cannot contact the requester, or the requester does not respond within 30 calendar days to OSTP's requests for clarification, OSTP will administratively close the request.


(e) *Types of records not available.* The FOIA does not require OSTP to:


(1) Compile or create records solely for the purpose of satisfying a request for records;


(2) Provide records not yet in existence, even if such records may be expected to come into existence at some future time; or


(3) Restore records destroyed or otherwise disposed of, except that OSTP must notify the requester of the destruction or disposal of the requested records.




