# § 63.787   Notification requirements.

(a) Each owner or operator of an affected source shall comply with all applicable notification requirements in § 63.9(a) through (d) and (i) through (j), with the exception that the deadline specified in § 63.9(b) (2) and (3) shall be extended from 120 days to 180 days. Any owner or operator that receives approval pursuant to § 63.783(c) to use an add-on control system to control coating emissions shall comply with the applicable requirements of § 63.9(e) through (h). 


(b) *Implementation plan.* The provisions of § 63.9(a) apply to the requirements of this paragraph. 


(1) Each owner or operator of an affected source shall: 


(i) Prepare a written implementation plan that addresses each of the subject areas specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section; and 


(ii) Not later than one year after the effective date of this subpart, submit the implementation plan to the Administrator along with the notification required by § 63.9(b)(2) or (b)(5) of subpart A, as applicable. 


(2) [Reserved]


(3) *Implementation plan contents.* Each implementation plan shall address the following subject areas: 


(i) *Coating compliance procedures.* The implementation plan shall include the compliance procedure(s) under § 63.785(c) that the source intends to use. 


(ii) *Recordkeeping procedures.* The implementation plan shall include the procedures for maintaining the records required under § 63.788, including the procedures for gathering the necessary data and making the necessary calculations. 


(iii) *Transfer, handling, and storage procedures.* The implementation plan shall include the procedures for ensuring compliance with § 63.783(b). 


(4) *Major sources that intend to become area sources by the compliance date.* Existing major sources that intend to become area sources by the December 16, 1997 compliance date may choose to submit, in lieu of the implementation plan required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, a statement that, by the compliance date, the major source intends to obtain and comply with federally enforceable limits on their potential to emit which make the facility an area source. 



---

[N] [60 FR 64336, Dec. 15, 1995, as amended at 61 FR 30816, June 18, 1996]




