# § 184.1924   Urease enzyme preparation from Lactobacillus fermentum.

(a) This enzyme preparation is derived from the nonpathogenic, nontoxicogenic bacterium *Lactobacillus fermentum.* It contains the enzyme urease (CAS Reg. No. 9002-13-5), which facilitates the hydrolysis of urea to ammonia and carbon dioxide. It is produced by a pure culture fermentation process and by using materials that are generally recognized as safe (GRAS) or are food additives that have been approved for this use by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA).


(b) The ingredient meets the general and additional requirements for enzyme preparations in the “Food Chemicals Codex,” 3d ed. (1981), pp. 107-110, which is incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies are available from the National Academy Press, 2101 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20418, or available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(c) In accordance with § 184.1(b)(1), the ingredient is used in food with no limitation other than current good manufacturing practice. The affirmation of this ingredient as GRAS as a direct human food ingredient is based upon the following current good manufacturing practice conditions of use:


(1) The ingredient is used in wine, as defined in 27 CFR 1.10 and 4.10, as an enzyme as defined in § 170.3(o)(9) of this chapter to convert urea to ammonia and carbon dioxide.


(2) The ingredient is used in food at levels not to exceed current good manufacturing practice. Current good manufacturing practice is limited to use of this ingredient in wine to inhibit formation of ethyl carbamate.



---

[N] [57 FR 60473, Dec. 21, 1992, as amended at 85 FR 72907, Nov. 16, 2020]




