# ยง 721.10092   Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), .alpha.-sulfo-.omega.-[[1-[(2-propen-1-yloxy)methyl]undecyl]oxy]-, ammonium salt (1:1); Poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), .alpha.-sulfo-.omega.-[[1-[(2-propen-1-yloxy)methyl]tridecyl]oxy]-, ammonium salt (1:1).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), .alpha.-sulfo-.omega.-[[1-[(2-propen-1-yloxy)methyl]undecyl]oxy]-, ammonium salt (1:1); poly(oxy-1,2-ethanediyl), .alpha.-sulfo-.omega.-[[1-[(2-propen-1-yloxy)methyl]tridecyl]oxy]-, ammonium salt (1:1) (PMN P-02-421; CAS Nos. 352661-91-7 and 224646-44-0) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in ยง 721.80(k) (no manufacture or import of the PMN substance unless: (1) The mean number of moles of the ethoxy group is equal to or greater than 8 or (2) the average molecular weight is greater than 721 daltons). Representative samples of the PMN substance must be analyzed and determined to comply with these requirements both at the time of initial commencement and annually thereafter.


(ii) [Reserved]


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in ยง 721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of ยง 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [73 FR 65758, Nov. 5, 2008]




