# § 22.215   Conditions of permits.

(a) Anyone conducting activities under a specific permit (§ 22.200) or general permit (§ 22.210) is subject to the conditions set forth in this section. You must also comply with the relevant conditions set forth in subpart D of part 13 of this subchapter and the conditions of your general or specific permit.


(1) Your permit will specify the type of take authorized (*e.g.,* incidental take, disturbance, nest take) and may specify the amount, location, or other restrictions on the take authorized. You are not authorized for any take not specified on the face of your permit.


(2) Your permit will require implementation of avoidance, minimization, monitoring, and adaptive management measures consistent with the relevant regulations in this subpart E. This may include requirements to:


(i) Modify the seasonality, frequency, timing, duration, or other aspects of your activity.


(ii) Implement measures to avoid and minimize the take or effects of take on eagles.


(iii) Monitor to determine the effects of the activity on eagles according to Service-approved protocols.


(iv) Implement an adaptive management plan.


(3) Your permits will specify requirements for reporting and disposing of any discovered eagle remains or injured eagles. Requirements may include:


(i) Training onsite personnel and requiring personnel to scan for discovered eagle remains or injured eagles;


(ii) Collecting information on discovered eagle remains or injured eagles, including species, condition, discovery date, location, and other information relevant to eagle identification and determining the cause of death or injury;


(iii) Reporting discovered eagle remains or injured eagles, including immediate notification and annual reporting; and


(iv) Disposition of any discovered eagle remains or injured eagles in accordance with Service instructions, which may include shipping eagles to the National Eagle Repository or other designated facility.


(4) You must comply with all Service reporting requirements. You must annually report incidental take and disturbance take using Form 3-202-15. You must report nest take using Form 3-202-16. You must submit accurate reports within the required timeline.


(5) You must comply with all compensatory mitigation requirements in accordance with § 22.220, including any additional requirements contained in § 22.250, § 22.260, § 22.280, or § 22.300.


(6) You must keep records of all activities conducted under this permit, including those of subpermittees carried out under the authority of this permit (see § 13.46 of this subchapter). You must provide records to the Service upon request.


(7) By accepting this permit, you are authorizing the Service to:


(i) Publish the following information in a public list of permittees: permittee name, permit type, county and State of activity, and effective date range.


(ii) Inspect the location and records relating to the activity at the location where those records are kept. Any inspections will occur during regular business hours (see § 13.21(e) of this subchapter).


(iii) Provide access to Service staff or contractors as part of participation in the Service's program-wide monitoring. The Service will provide reasonable notice for requests to access sites and negotiate with the permittee about practicable and appropriate access conditions to protect human health and safety and comply with any physical, logistical, or legal constraints.


(8) You are responsible for ensuring that the activity for which take is authorized complies with all applicable Federal, Tribal, State, and local laws, regulations, and permits. You must comply with all label instructions for handling controlled substances and chemicals, including pesticides.


(9) Permits are issued to the entity or individual conducting the action.


(i) The Principal Officer is the chief operating officer responsible for the permit application and any permitted activities. The Principal Officer is responsible for compliance with all conditions of authorization, including the conditions listed here and any permit conditions. The Principal Officer must have the authority to implement all conditions and is legally liable for any subpermittee conducting activities under the permit.


(ii) The authority of this authorization may be exercised by subpermittees. A subpermittee is any person who is employed by the authorized entity to conduct the activities specified or any person designated as a subpermittee in writing by the Principal Officer. Subpermittee-designation letters must identify who can conduct what activities and list any restrictions on the dates, locations, or types of activities the subpermittee may conduct.


(iii) The Principal Officer is responsible for any subpermittee who is conducting authorized activities. Subpermittees must have the conditions of authorization and, if applicable, a copy of the permit readily available. Subpermittees who are not employees must also have a subpermittee-designation letter.


(b) The Service may amend, suspend, or revoke a permit issued under this subpart if new information indicates that revised permit conditions are necessary, or that suspension or revocation is necessary, to safeguard local or regional eagle populations. This provision is in addition to the general criteria for amendment, suspension, and revocation of Federal permits set forth in §§ 13.23, 13.27, and 13.28 of this subchapter.


(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of § 13.26 of this subchapter, you remain responsible for all outstanding monitoring requirements and mitigation measures required under the terms of the permit for take that occurs prior to cancellation, expiration, suspension, or revocation of the permit.






