# § 165.518   Security Zone; Waters of the Fifth Coast Guard District.

(a) *Definitions.* As used in this section—


*Designated Representative* means any U.S. Coast Guard commissioned, warrant or petty officer who has been authorized by the District Commander or local Captain of the Port (COTP), as defined in 33 CFR part 3, subpart 3.25, to act on his or her behalf.


*Escorted vessel* means a vessel, other than a U.S. naval vessel as defined in § 165.2015, that is accompanied by one or more Coast Guard assets or Federal, State or local law enforcement agency assets as listed below:


(1) Coast Guard surface or air asset displaying the Coast Guard insignia.


(2) Coast Guard Auxiliary surface asset displaying the Coast Guard Auxiliary insignia.


(3) State and/or local law enforcement asset displaying the applicable agency markings and or equipment associated with the agency.


*State and/or local law enforcement officers* means any State or local government law enforcement officer who has authority to enforce State criminal laws.


(b) *Location.* The following area is a security zone: 500-yard radius around escorted vessels in the navigable waters of the Fifth Coast Guard District as defined in 33 CFR 3.25-1, from surface to bottom.


(c) *Regulations.* (1) No vessel may approach within 500 yards of an escorted vessel within the navigable waters of the Fifth Coast Guard District, unless traveling at the minimum speed necessary to navigate safely.


(2) No vessel may enter within a 100-yard radius of an escorted vessel within the navigable waters of the Fifth Coast Guard District, without approval from the District Commander, Captain of the Port or their designated representatives.


(3) Moored or anchored vessels, which are overtaken by a moving zone, must remain stationary at their location until the escorted vessel maneuvers at least 500 yards past.


(4) Vessels restricted in their ability to maneuver may request permission of the District Commander, Captain of the Port or designated representative to enter the security zone in order to ensure safe passage in accordance with the Navigation Rules (COLREGS and their associated Annexes and Inland Navigation Rules (33 CFR subchapter E))..


(5) The local COTP may notify the maritime and general public by marine information broadcast of the periods during which individual security zones have been activated by providing notice in accordance with 33 CFR 165.7.


(6) When moored, a security zone around an escorted vessel may also be enforced by Coast Guard, State or Local law enforcement personnel shoreside.


(7) Persons desiring to transit within 100 yards of an escorted vessel in the Fifth Coast Guard District must contact the local Captain of the Port on VHF channel 16 (156.800 MHz), VHF channel 13 (156.650 MHz) or at telephone numbers:


(8) If permission is granted to transit within 100 yards of an escorted vessel, all persons and vessels must comply with the instructions of the District Commander, Captain of the Port or their designated representative.



---

[N] [CGD05-04-171, 70 FR 11551, Mar. 9, 2005, as amended by USCG-2011-0368, 76 FR 26605, May 9, 2011; USCG-2015-0433, 80 FR 44286, July 27, 2015]


