# ยง 26.2   Definitions.

(a) Terms used in these Regulations are defined as follows:


(1) *Act.* The Youth Conservation Corps Act of 1970. Public Law 91-378, as amended.


(2) *Secretaries.* The Secretaries of Agriculture and the Interior, or their designated representatives, who jointly administer the grant program. Within the Department of Agriculture, the YCC program is administered by the Forest Service; within the Department of the Interior it is administered by the Office of Youth Programs.


(3) *States.* Any of the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.


(4) *Grant.* Money or property provided in lieu of money, paid or furnished by the Secretaries pursuant to the Act to a State to carry out a YCC program on non-Federal public lands and waters. The amount of any grant shall be determined jointly by the Secretaries, except that no grant for any project may exceed 80 per centum of the cost (as determined by the Secretaries) of said project.


(5) *Grantee.* Any State which is a recipient of a Federal grant for the operation of a YCC program.


(6) *Subgrantee.* Any public organization, municipality, county, or agency which administers non-Federal public lands and waters which successfully applied through a State for the operation of a Youth Conservation Corps project within that State.


(7) *Contractor.* Any public agency or organization or any private nonprofit agency or organization which has been in existence for at least 5 years which operates a YCC project for a grantee or subgrantee.


(8) *Program agent.* Individual designated in writing by the Governor to have program responsibility for all aspects of YCC operations in that State except for those projects conducted under Federal auspices.


(9) *State grant program.* That part of the YCC program carried out on non-Federal public lands and waters by States receiving YCC grants-in-aid.


(10) *Project.* The operating unit of the State YCC grant program. A project will be designated as either residential or nonresidential.


(i) *Residential project.* One in which youth reside either 7 or 5 days per week at a site on or in proximity to the public lands where they conduct their work-learning program.


(ii) *Nonresidential project.* One in which youth reside at home and daily commute to the public lands to conduct their work-learning program.


(11) *Operating year.* January 1 through December 31.


(12) *Non-Federal public lands and waters.* Any lands or waters within the territorial limits of a State owned either in fee simple by a State or political subdivision thereof or over which a State or political subdivision thereof has, as determined by the Secretaries, sufficient long-term jurisdiction so that improvements made as the result of a grant will accrue primarily to the benefit of the public as a whole. Federally owned public lands and waters administered by a State or political subdivision thereof under agreement with a Department or Agency of the Federal Government are eligible under such definition if the Secretaries determine that the State or political subdivision thereof is entitled to or is likely to retain administrative responsibility for an extended period of time sufficient to justify classification as non-Federal public lands or waters.




