# ยง 1313.24   Waiver of 15-day advance notice for chemical exporters.

(a) Each regulated person shall provide to the Administration the identity and information listed in the definition of established business relationship in ยง 1300.02 of this chapter for an established business relationship with a foreign customer not later than August 31, 1989.


(b) Not later than October 31, 1989, each regular customer so identified in notifications made under ยง 1313.24(a) shall be a regular customer for purposes of waiving the 15-day advance notice requirement, unless the regulated person is otherwise notified in writing by the Administration.


(c) Each foreign customer identified on an initial DEA Form 486 submitted after the effective date of the implementation of part 1313 shall, after the expiration of the 15-day period, qualify as a regular customer, unless the Administration otherwise notifies the regulated person in writing.


(d) Unless the Administration notifies the chemical exporter to the contrary, the qualification of a regular customer for any one of these three chemicals, acetone, 2-Butanone (MEK), or toluene, qualifies that customer as a regular customer for all three of these chemicals.


(e) The Administrator may notify any chemical exporter that a regular customer has been disqualified or that a new customer for whom a notification has been submitted is not to be accorded the status of a regular customer. In the event of a disqualification of an established regular customer, the chemical exporter will be notified in writing of the reasons for such action.



---

[N] [54 FR 31665, Aug. 1, 1989, as amended at 56 FR 55077, Oct. 24, 1991; 62 FR 13969, Mar. 24, 1997; 75 FR 10684, Mar. 9, 2010; 77 FR 4237, Jan. 27, 2012]




