# § 715.11   General obligations.

(a) *Compliance.* All surface coal mining and reclamation operations conducted on lands where any element of the operations is regulated by a State shall comply with the initial performance standards of this part according to the time schedule specified in § 710.11. Part 717 of this chapter establishes performance standards for surface effects of underground coal mines. Initial regulations regarding the special Initial Performance Standards are established by part 716 of this chapter for—


(1) Surface coal mining operations on steep slopes;


(2) Surface coal mining operations involving mountaintop removal;


(3) Special bituminous coal mines;


(4) Anthracite surface coal mining operations;


(5) Surface coal mining operations in Alaska; and


(6) Surface coal mining operations on prime farmlands.


(b) *Authorizations to operate.* A copy of all current permits, licenses, approved plans, or other authorizations to operate the mine shall be available for inspection at or near the mine site.


(c)(1) *Mine maps.* Any person conducting surface coal mining and reclamation operations on and after May 3, 1978, shall submit two copies of an accurate map of the mine and permit area at a scale of 1:6000 or larger. The map shall show as of May 3, 1978, the lands from which coal has not yet been removed and the lands and structures which have been used or disturbed to facilitate mining. One copy of the mine map shall be submitted to the State regulatory authority and one copy shall be submitted to the Regional Director, OSM, before July 3, 1978.


(2) In addition to the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section, any person who conducted surface coal mining and reclamation operations pursuant to a small operator's exemption shall submit before March 15, 1979, two copies of an accurate map of each mine showing the permit area at a scale of 1:6000 or larger. One copy shall be submitted to the state regulatory authority and one copy to the appropriate Regional Director, OSM. The map shall show as of December 31, 1978 or the expiration date of the exemption (whichever is earlier) the lands from which coal had not yet been removed, the lands and structures which had been used or disturbed to facilitate mining, and the lands which had not been disturbed. The map need not be submitted if these areas have already been shown on mine maps submitted to the state regulatory authority, if a copy is available to the appropriate Regional Director pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section or 30 CFR 720.13(b). 


(d) *Indian lands*—(1) *Mine maps.* Any person conducting surface coal mining and reclamation operations on Indian lands under this part shall submit no fewer than 7 copies of an accurate map of the mine and authorized mining areas at a scale of 1:6000 or larger. The map shall show, as of December 16, 1977, the lands where coal has not yet been removed and the lands and structures that have been used or disturbed to facilitate surface coal mining operations.


(2) *Consultation with tribal governments.* Any requirement in this part for consultation with or notification to State and local governments shall be interpreted as requiring, in like manner, consultation with or notification to tribal governments. OSM shall consult with the Bureau of Indian Affairs with respect to special requirements relating to the protection of noncoal resources and with the Bureau of Land Management with respect to the requirements relating to the development, production, and recovery of mineral resources on Indian lands.



---

[N] [42 FR 62680, Dec. 13, 1977, as amended at 44 FR 6682, Feb. 1, 1979; 59 FR 43419, Aug. 23, 1994] 




