# ยง 21.4261   Apprentice courses.

(a) *General.* An apprentice course is any training on-the-job course which has been established as an apprentice course by a training establishment as defined in ยง 21.4200(c) and which has been approved as an apprentice course by the State approving agency. 


(b) *Application.* Any training establishment desiring to furnish a course of apprentice training will submit a written application to the appropriate State approving agency setting forth the following: 


(1) Title and description of the specific job objective for which the veteran or eligible person is to be trained; 


(2) The length of the training period; 


(3) A schedule listing various operations for major kinds of work or tasks to be learned and showing for each job operations or work, tasks to be performed, and the approximate length of time to be spent on each operation or task; 


(4) The number of hours of supplemental related instruction required; and 


(5) Any additional information required by the State approving agency. 


(c) *Approval criteria.* The appropriate State approving agency may approve a course of apprentice training when the training establishment and its apprentice courses are found upon investigation to have met the following criteria: 


(1) The standards of apprenticeship published by the Secretary of Labor pursuant to 29 U.S.C. 50a; 


(2) A signed copy of the training agreement for each veteran or eligible person, making reference to the training program and wage schedule as approved by the State approving agency, is provided to the veteran or eligible person and the Department of Veterans Affairs and the State approving agency by the employer; and 


(3) The course meets such other reasonable criteria as may be established by the State approving agency.


(d) *Promotion.* As funding permits, Department of Veterans Affairs employees will promote the development of apprenticeships. They will:


(1) Visit employers and joint apprenticeship committees,


(2) Coordinate their efforts with activities of any State approving agencies that may choose to promote the development of apprenticeships, and 


(3) Avoid duplicating the efforts of others by coordinating their promotional efforts with similar activities of the Department of Labor and State employment security agencies as provided by written agreements covering these activities, including utilization of disabled veterans' outreach program specialists.



---

[N] [32 FR 13405, Sept. 23, 1967, as amended at 33 FR 9546, June 29, 1968; 38 FR 14938, June 7, 1973; 47 FR 42731, Sept. 29, 1982] 




