# § 63.1063   Floating roof requirements.

The owner or operator who elects to use a floating roof to comply with the requirements of § 63.1062 shall comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section.


(a) *Design requirements*—(1) *Rim seals.* (i) *Internal floating roof.* An IFR shall be equipped with one of the seal configurations listed in paragraphs (a)(1)(i)(A) through (a)(1)(i)(C) of this section.


(A) A liquid-mounted seal.


(B) A mechanical shoe seal.


(C) Two seals mounted one above the other. The lower seal may be vapor-mounted.


(D) If the IFR is equipped with a vapor-mounted seal as of the proposal date for a referencing subpart, paragraphs (a)(1)(i)(A) through (a)(1)(i)(C) of this section do not apply until the next time the storage vessel is completely emptied and degassed, or 10 years after promulgation of the referencing subpart, whichever occurs first.


(ii) *External floating roof.* An EFR shall be equipped with one of the seal configurations listed in paragraphs (a)(1)(ii)(A) and (a)(1)(ii)(B) of this section.


(A) A liquid-mounted seal and a secondary seal.


(B) A mechanical shoe seal and a secondary seal. The upper end of the shoe(s) shall extend a minimum of 61 centimeters (24 inches) above the stored liquid surface.


(C) If the EFR is equipped with a liquid-mounted seal or mechanical shoe seal, or a vapor-mounted seal and secondary seal, as of the proposal date for a referencing subpart, the seal options specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(ii)(A) and (a)(1)(ii)(B) of this section do not apply until the next time the storage vessel is completely emptied and degassed, or 10 years after the promulgation date of the referencing subpart, whichever occurs first.


(2) *Deck fittings.* Openings through the deck of the floating roof shall be equipped as described in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (a)(2)(viii) of this section.


(i) Each opening except those for automatic bleeder vents (vacuum breaker vents) and rim space vents shall have its lower edge below the surface of the stored liquid.


(ii) Each opening except those for automatic bleeder vents (vacuum breaker vents), rim space vents, leg sleeves, and deck drains shall be equipped with a deck cover. The deck cover shall be equipped with a gasket between the cover and the deck.


(iii) Each automatic bleeder vent (vacuum breaker vent) and rim space vent shall be equipped with a gasketed lid, pallet, flapper, or other closure device.


(iv) Each opening for a fixed roof support column may be equipped with a flexible fabric sleeve seal instead of a deck cover.


(v) Each opening for a sample well or deck drain (that empties into the stored liquid) may be equipped with a slit fabric seal or similar device that covers at least 90 percent of the opening, instead of a deck cover.


(vi) Each cover on access hatches and gauge float wells shall be designed to be bolted or fastened when closed.


(vii) Each opening for an unslotted guidepole shall be equipped with a pole wiper, and each unslotted guidepole shall be equipped with a gasketed cap on the top of the guidepole.


(viii) Each opening for a slotted guidepole shall be equipped with one of the control device configurations specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(viii)(A) and (a)(2)(viii)(B) of this section.


(A) A pole wiper and a pole float. The wiper or seal of the pole float shall be at or above the height of the pole wiper.


(B) A pole wiper and a pole sleeve.


(ix) If the floating roof does not meet the requirements listed in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (a)(2)(viii) of this section as of the proposal date of the referencing subpart, these requirements do not apply until the next time the vessel is completely emptied and degassed, or 10 years after the promulgation date of the referencing subpart, whichever occurs first.


(b) *Operational requirements.* (1) The floating roof shall float on the stored liquid surface at all times, except when the floating roof is supported by its leg supports or other support devices (e.g., hangers from the fixed roof).


(2) When the storage vessel is storing liquid, but the liquid depth is insufficient to float the floating roof, the process of filling to the point of refloating the floating roof shall be continuous and shall be performed as soon as practical.


(3) Each cover over an opening in the floating roof, except for automatic bleeder vents (vacuum breaker vents) and rim space vents, shall be closed at all times, except when the cover must be open for access.


(4) Each automatic bleeder vent (vacuum breaker vent) and rim space vent shall be closed at all times, except when required to be open to relieve excess pressure or vacuum, in accordance with the manufacturer's design.


(5) Each unslotted guidepole cap shall be closed at all times except when gauging the liquid level or taking liquid samples.


(c) *Inspection frequency requirements*—(1) *Internal floating roofs.* Internal floating roofs shall be inspected as specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section before the initial filling of the storage vessel. Subsequent inspections shall be performed as specified in paragraph (c)(1)(i) or (c)(1)(ii) of this section.


(i) Internal floating roofs shall be inspected as specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i)(A) and (c)(1)(i)(B) of this section.


(A) At least once per year the IFR shall be inspected as specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.


(B) Each time the storage vessel is completely emptied and degassed, or every 10 years, whichever occurs first, the IFR shall be inspected as specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.


(ii) Instead of the inspection frequency specified in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, internal floating roofs with two rim seals may be inspected as specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section each time the storage vessel is completely emptied and degassed, or every 5 years, whichever occurs first.


(2) *External floating roofs.* External floating roofs shall be inspected as specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (c)(2)(iv) of this section.


(i) Within 90 days after the initial filling of the storage vessel, the primary and secondary rim seals shall be inspected as specified in paragraph (d)(3) of this section.


(ii) The secondary seal shall be inspected at least once every year, and the primary seal shall be inspected at least every 5 years, as specified in paragraph (d)(3) of this section.


(iii) Each time the storage vessel is completely emptied and degassed, or every 10 years, whichever occurs first, the EFR shall be inspected as specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.


(iv) If the owner or operator determines that it is unsafe to perform the floating roof inspections specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (c)(2)(ii) of this section, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements of paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(A) or (c)(2)(iv)(B) of this section.


(A) The inspections shall be performed no later than 30 days after the determination that the floating roof is unsafe.


(B) The storage vessel shall be removed from liquid service no later than 45 days after determining the floating roof is unsafe. If the vessel cannot be emptied within 45 days, the owner or operator may utilize up to two extensions of up to 30 additional days each. If the vessel cannot be emptied within 45 days, the owner or operator may utilize up to two extensions of up to 30 additional days each. Documentation of a decision to use an extension shall include an explanation of why it was unsafe to perform the inspection, documentation that alternative storage capacity is unavailable, and a schedule of actions that will ensure that the vessel will be emptied as soon as practical.


(d) *Inspection procedure requirements.* Floating roof inspections shall be conducted as specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(3) of this section, as applicable. If a floating roof fails an inspection, the owner or operator shall comply with the repair requirements of paragraph (e) of this section.


(1) Floating roof (IFR and EFR) inspections shall be conducted by visually inspecting the floating roof deck, deck fittings, and rim seals from within the storage vessel. The inspection may be performed entirely from the top side of the floating roof, as long as there is visual access to all deck components specified in paragraph (a) of this section. Any of the conditions described in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (d)(1)(v) of this section constitutes inspection failure.


(i) Stored liquid on the floating roof.


(ii) Holes or tears in the primary or secondary seal (if one is present).


(iii) Floating roof deck, deck fittings, or rim seals that are not functioning as designed (as specified in paragraph (a) of this section).


(iv) Failure to comply with the operational requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.


(v) Gaps of more than 0.32 centimeters (
1/8 inch) between any deck fitting gasket, seal, or wiper (required by paragraph (a) of this section) and any surface that it is intended to seal.


(2) Tank-top inspections of IFR's shall be conducted by visually inspecting the floating roof deck, deck fittings, and rim seal through openings in the fixed roof. Any of the conditions described in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (d)(1)(iv) of this section constitutes inspection failure. Identification of holes or tears in the rim seal is required only for the seal that is visible from the top of the storage vessel.


(3) Seal gap inspections for EFR's shall determine the presence and size of gaps between the rim seals and the wall of the storage vessel by the procedures specified in paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section. Any exceedance of the gap requirements specified in paragraphs (d)(3)(ii) and (d)(3)(iii) of this section constitutes inspection failure.


(i) Rim seals shall be measured for gaps at one or more levels while the EFR is floating, as specified in paragraphs (d)(3)(i)(A) through (d)(3)(i)(F) of this section.


(A) The inspector shall hold a 0.32 centimeter (
1/8 inch) diameter probe vertically against the inside of the storage vessel wall, just above the rim seal, and attempt to slide the probe down between the seal and the vessel wall. Each location where the probe passes freely (without forcing or binding against the seal) between the seal and the vessel wall constitutes a gap.


(B) The length of each gap shall be determined by inserting the probe into the gap (vertically) and sliding the probe along the vessel wall in each direction as far as it will travel freely without binding between the seal and the vessel wall. The circumferential length along which the probe can move freely is the gap length.


(C) The maximum width of each gap shall be determined by inserting probes of various diameters between the seal and the vessel wall. The smallest probe diameter should be 0.32 centimeter, and larger probes should have diameters in increments of 0.32 centimeter. The diameter of the largest probe that can be inserted freely anywhere along the length of the gap is the maximum gap width.


(D) The average width of each gap shall be determined by averaging the minimum gap width (0.32 centimeter) and the maximum gap width.


(E) The area of a gap is the product of the gap length and average gap width.


(F) The ratio of accumulated area of rim seal gaps to storage vessel diameter shall be determined by adding the area of each gap, and dividing the sum by the nominal diameter of the storage vessel. This ratio shall be determined separately for primary and secondary rim seals.


(ii) The ratio of seal gap area to vessel diameter for the primary seal shall not exceed 212 square centimeters per meter of vessel diameter (10 square inches per foot of vessel diameter), and the maximum gap width shall not exceed 3.81 centimeters (1.5 inches).


(iii) The ratio of seal gap area to vessel diameter for the secondary seal shall not exceed 21.2 square centimeters per meter (1 square inch per foot), and the maximum gap width shall not exceed 1.27 centimeters (0.5 inches), except when the secondary seal must be pulled back or removed to inspect the primary seal.


(e) *Repair requirements.* Conditions causing inspection failures under paragraph (d) of this section shall be repaired as specified in paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(2) of this section.


(1) If the inspection is performed while the storage vessel is not storing liquid, repairs shall be completed before the refilling of the storage vessel with liquid.


(2) If the inspection is performed while the storage vessel is storing liquid, repairs shall be completed or the vessel removed from service within 45 days. If a repair cannot be completed and the vessel cannot be emptied within 45 days, the owner or operator may use up to 2 extensions of up to 30 additional days each. Documentation of a decision to use an extension shall include a description of the failure, shall document that alternate storage capacity is unavailable, and shall specify a schedule of actions that will ensure that the control equipment will be repaired or the vessel will be completely emptied as soon as practical.




