# ยง 73.1530   Spirulina extract.

(a) *Identity.* (1) The color additive spirulina extract is prepared by the filtered aqueous extraction of the dried biomass of *Arthrospira platensis.* The color additive contains phycocyanins as the principal coloring components.


(2) Color additive mixtures for drug use made with spirulina extract may contain only those diluents that are suitable and are listed in this subpart as safe for use in color additive mixtures for coloring ingested drugs.


(b) *Specifications.* Spirulina extract must conform to the following specifications and must be free from impurities, other than those named, to the extent that such other impurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice:


(1) Lead, not more than 2 milligrams per kilogram (mg/kg) (2 parts per million (ppm));


(2) Arsenic, not more than 2 mg/kg (2 ppm);


(3) Mercury, not more than 1 mg/kg (1 ppm); and


(4) Negative for microcystin toxin.


(c) *Uses and restrictions.* Spirulina extract may be safely used for coloring coating formulations applied to drug tablets and capsules, at levels consistent with good manufacturing practice.


(d) *Labeling requirements.* The label of the color additive and any mixture prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall conform to the requirements of ยง 70.25 of this chapter.


(e) *Exemption from certification.* Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.



---

[N] [80 FR 50765, Aug. 21, 2015]




