# ยง 206.8   Reimbursement of other Federal agencies.

(a) Assistance furnished under ยง 206.5 (a) or (b) of this subpart may be provided with or without compensation as considered appropriate by the Administrator, Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate, or the Regional Administrator or Regional Director.


(b) The Administrator, Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate, or the Regional Administrator or the Regional Director may not approve reimbursement of costs incurred while performing work pursuant to disaster assistance authorities independent of the Stafford Act.


(c) *Expenditures eligible for reimbursement.* The Administrator, Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate, or the Regional Administrator or the Regional Director may approve reimbursement of the following costs which are incurred in providing requested assistance.


(1) Overtime, travel, and per diem of permanent Federal agency personnel.


(2) Wages, travel, and per diem of temporary Federal agency personnel assigned solely to performance of services directed by the Administrator, Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate, or the Regional Administrator or the Regional Director in the major disaster or emergency area designated by the Regional Director.


(3) Travel and per diem of Federal military personnel assigned solely to the performance of services directed by the Administrator, Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate, or the Regional Administrator or the Regional Director in the major disaster or emergency area designated by the Regional Director.


(4) Cost of work, services, and materials procured under contract for the purposes of providing assistance directed by the Administrator, Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate, or the Regional Administrator or the Regional Director.


(5) Cost of materials, equipment, and supplies (including transportation, repair, and maintenance) from regular stocks used in providing directed assistance.


(6) All costs incurred which are paid from trust, revolving, or other funds, and whose reimbursement is required by law.


(7) Other costs submitted by an agency with written justification or otherwise agreed to in writing by the Administrator, Assistant Administrator for the Disaster Assistance Directorate, or the Regional Administrator or the Regional Director and the agency.


(d) *Procedures for reimbursement.* Federal agencies performing work under a mission assignment will submit requests for reimbursement, as follows:


(1) Federal agencies may submit requests for reimbursement of amounts greater than $1,000 at any time. Requests for lesser amounts may be submitted only quarterly. An agency shall submit a final accounting of expenditures after completion of the agency's work under each directive for assistance. The time limit and method for submission of reimbursement requests will be stipulated in the mission assignment letter.


(2) An agency shall document its request for reimbursement with specific details on personnel services, travel, and all other expenses by object class as specified in OMB Circular A-12 and by any other subobject class used in the agency's accounting system. Where contracts constitute a significant portion of the billings, the agency shall provide a listing of individual contracts and their associated costs.


(3) Reimbursement requests shall cite the specific mission assignment under which the work was performed, and the major disaster or emergency identification number. Requests for reimbursement of costs incurred under more than one mission assignment may not be combined for billing purposes.


(4) Unless otherwise agreed, an agency shall direct all requests for reimbursement to the Regional Administrator of the region in which the costs were incurred.


(5) A Federal agency requesting reimbursement shall retain all financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and other records pertinent to the provision of services or use of resources by that agency. These materials shall be accessible to duly authorized representatives of FEMA and the U.S. Comptroller General, for the purpose of making audits, excerpts, and transcripts, for a period of 3 years starting from the date of submission of the final billing.




