# ยง 316.10   Payment or redemption.

(a) *General.* A Series E bond may be redeemed in accordance with its terms at the appropriate redemption value shown in the applicable table described in paragraph (f) of ยง 316.8. The redemption values of bonds in the denomination of $100,000 are not shown in the tables. However, the redemption value of a bond in that denomination will be equal to ten times the redemption value of a $10,000 bond of the same issue date. A bond in a denomination higher that $25 (face amount) may be redeemed in part but only in the amount of an authorized denomination or multiple thereof.


(b) *Federal Reserve Banks and Branches and United States Treasury.* Owners of Series E bonds may obtain payment upon presentation and surrender of the bonds to a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch referred to in ยง 316.12 or to the Department of the Treasury with the request for payment on the bonds duly executed and certified in accordance with the governing regulations.


(c) *Incorporated banks, savings and loan associations and other financial institutions.* (1) A financial institution qualified as a paying agent under the provisions of 31 CFR part 321, also published as Department of the Treasury Circular, Fiscal Service Series No. 750, as revised, will pay the current redemption value of a Series E bond presented for payment by an individual whose name is inscribed on the bond as owner or coowner, provided:


(i) The bond is in order for payment; and


(ii) The presenter establishes his or her identity to the satisfaction of the agent, in accordance with Treasury instructions and identification guidelines, and signs and completes the requests for payment.


(2) A paying agent may (but is not required to) pay a Series E bond, at current redemption value, upon the request of a legal representative designated in the bond's registration by name and capacity, a court-appointed legal representative of the last-deceased registrant's estate, or a beneficiary, if he or she survives the owner, provided:


(i) The bond is in order for payment; and


(ii) The presenter establishes his or her identity to the satisfaction of the agent, in accordance with Treasury instructions, indentification guidelines, and otherwise complies with evidentiary requirements.



---

[N] [57 FR 14276, Apr. 17, 1992, as amended at 59 FR 10535, Mar. 4, 1994]




