# § 402.65   Expedited processing.

(a) Expedited processing must be requested at the same time as the FOIA request. We provide expedited processing when the requester can demonstrate a “compelling need” for the requested information:


(1) When there is an imminent threat to the life or safety of a person;


(2) When the requester is primarily engaged in disseminating information, and shows an urgency to inform the public about actual or alleged government activities; or


(3) When the requester can show, in detail and to our satisfaction, that a prompt response is needed because the requester may be denied a legal right, benefit, or remedy without the requested information, and that it cannot be obtained elsewhere in a reasonable amount of time.


(b) A requester who seeks expedited processing must submit a statement, certified to be true and correct, explaining in detail the basis for making the request for expedited processing. We will notify the requester within 10 calendar days of receipt of the request for expedited processing of our decision to grant or deny expedited processing. Only the FOIA Officer may make the decision to grant or deny expedited processing. Requests granted expedited processing will be given priority and processed as soon as practicable. Requests that do not meet the “compelling need” criteria, will be processed normally. If we do not grant the request for expedited processing, the requester may appeal the denial to the Executive Director for OPD. In the appeal letter, the requester should explain why they believe their request demonstrates a “compelling need,” such as describing how the request meets the criteria in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section. The process described in § 402.105 will also apply to these appeals.






