# ยง 45.9   Automatic authorization of certain interlocking positions.

(a) *Applicability.* Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the Commission authorizes any officer or director of a public utility to hold the following interlocking positions: 


(1) Officer or director of one or more other public utilities if the same holding company or person owns, directly or indirectly, that percentage of each utility's stock (of whatever class or classes) which is required by each utility's by-laws to elect directors; 


(2) Officer or director of two public utilities, if one utility is owned, wholly or in part, by the other and, as its primary business, owns or operates transmission or generating facilities to provide transmission service or electric power for sale to its owners; and 


(3) Officer or director of more than one public utility, if such officer or director is already authorized under this part to hold positions as officer or director of those or any other public utilities where the interlock involves affiliated public utilities.


(b) *Conditions of authorization.* (1) As a condition of authorization, any person eligible to seek authorization to hold interlocking positions under this section must submit, prior to performing or assuming the duties and responsibilities of the position, an informational report in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, unless that person:


(i) Is already authorized to hold interlocking positions of the type governed by this section;


(ii) Is exempt from filing an informational report pursuant to ยง 45.4; or


(iii) Will hold a temporary interlocking position pursuant to ยง 45.1(c).


(2) The Commission will consider failures to timely file the informational report on a case-by-case basis.


(c) *Informational report.* An informational report required under paragraph (b) of this section must state: 


(1) The full name and business address of the person required to submit this report; 


(2) The names of all public utilities with which the person holds or will hold the positions of officer or director and a description of those positions; 


(3) The names of any entity, other than those listed in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, of which the person is an officer or director and a description of those positions; and 


(4) An explanation of the corporate relationship between or among the public utilities listed in paragraph (c)(2) of this section which qualifies the person for automatic authorization under this section.


(5) A statement or an affirmation that the applicant has not yet performed or assumed the duties or responsibilities of the position which necessitated the filing of this informational report.



---

[N] [Order 446, 51 FR 4905, Feb. 10, 1986, as amended by Order 664, 70 FR 55723, Sept. 23, 2005; Order 856, 84 FR 7282, Mar. 4, 2019] 




