# § 1807.503   Project Completion; Property standards.

(a) Upon Project Completion, the Project must be placed into service by the date designated in the Assistance Agreement. Project Completion for Affordable Housing Activities and Economic Development Activities occurs, as determined by the CDFI Fund, when:


(1) All necessary title transfer requirements and construction work have been performed;


(2) The property standards of paragraph (b) of this section have been met;


(3) The final drawdown of the CMF Award has been made to the project sponsor or developer;


(4) For Preservation, the refinancing of the loan is closed and the underlying real estate is in compliance with all CMF requirements and, if applicable, Rehabilitation is completed and the requirements set forth in this paragraph (a) are achieved;


(5) For qualified Secondary Market Mortgage Purchase, the loan purchase transaction is complete, all CMF Secondary Market Mortgage requirements are met, and the CMF Award is disbursed to the lender (*i.e.,* seller of the loan);


(6) For Loan Loss Reserves, the Loan Loss Reserve is established and the CMF Award is disbursed to an escrow, cash reserve, or obligated to an accounting-based accrual reserve to secure loans for Affordable Housing or Economic Development Activities that meet the requirements of subpart D of this part;


(7) For Loan Loss Guarantees, the Loan Guarantee is executed guaranteeing loans for Affordable Housing or Economic Development Activities that meet the requirements of subpart D of this part.


(b) By the Project Completion date, the Project must meet the requirements of this part, including the following property standards:


(1) *Code requirements.* Projects that are constructed or Rehabilitated with a CMF Award must meet all applicable State and local codes, Rehabilitation standards, ordinances, and zoning requirements at the time of Project Completion or, in the absence of a State or local building code, the International Residential Code or International Building Code (as applicable) of the International Code Council.


(2) *Other requirements.* In addition, Projects must meet the following requirements:


(i) *Accessibility.* The Project must meet all applicable accessibility requirements set forth at 24 CFR part 8, which implements section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794), and Titles II and III of the Americans with Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. 12131 through 12189) implemented at 28 CFR parts 35 and 36, as applicable. Multi-family housing must meet all applicable design and construction requirements set forth in 24 CFR 100.205 which implement Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968 (Fair Housing Act)(42 U.S.C. 3601-3619). Those design and construction requirements are the same rules that apply to “covered multifamily dwellings,” as defined in 24 CFR 100.201.


(ii) *Disaster mitigation.* The Project must meet all applicable State and local codes, ordinances, or other disaster mitigation requirements (*e.g.,* earthquake, hurricanes, flooding, wild fires), or other requirements as the Department of Housing and Urban Development has established in 24 CFR part 93.


(iii) *Lead-based paint.* The Project must meet all applicable lead-based paint requirements, including those set forth in 24 CFR part 35.


(3) *Rehabilitation standards.* In addition, all Rehabilitation Projects must meet the following requirements:


(i) For rental Housing, if the remaining useful life of one or more major systems is less than the Affordability Period, the Recipient must ensure that, at Project Completion, the developer or Project sponsor establishes a replacement reserve and that monthly payments are made to the reserve that are adequate to repair or replace the systems as needed. Major systems include: structural support; roofing; cladding and weatherproofing (*e.g.,* windows, doors, siding, gutters); plumbing; electrical; heating, ventilation, and air conditioning.


(ii) For Homeownership Single-family housing, the Recipient must ensure that, at Project Completion, the Housing is decent, safe, sanitary, and in good repair. The Recipient must ensure that timely corrective and remedial actions are taken to address identified life-threatening deficiencies.


(4) *Manufactured housing.* All manufactured housing must meet the Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards set forth in 24 CFR part 3280. These standards preempt State and local laws or codes, which are not identical to the Federal standards for the new construction of manufactured housing. The installation of all manufactured housing units must comply with applicable State and local laws or codes. In the absence of such laws or codes, the installation must comply with the manufacturer's written instructions for installation of manufactured housing units. Manufactured housing that is rehabilitated using a CMF Award must meet the requirements set out in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.




