# § 555.141   Exemptions.

(a) *General.* Except for the provisions of §§ 555.180 and 555.181, this part does not apply to:


(1) Any aspect of the transportation of explosive materials via railroad, water, highway, or air which is regulated by the U.S. Department of Transportation and its agencies, and which pertains to safety. For example, regulations issued by the Department of Transportation addressing the security risk of aliens transporting explosives by commercial motor or railroad carrier from Canada preclude the enforcement of 18 U.S.C. 842(i)(5) against persons shipping, transporting, receiving, or possessing explosives incident to and in connection with the commercial transportation of explosives by truck or rail from Canada into the United States. Questions concerning this exception should be directed to ATF's Explosives Industry Program Branch in Washington, DC.


(2) The use of explosive materials in medicines and medicinal agents in the forms prescribed by the official United States Pharmacopeia or the National Formulary. “The United States Pharmacopeia and The National Formulary,” USP and NF Compendia, are available from the United States Pharmacopeial Convention, Inc., 12601 Twinbrook Parkway, Rockville, Maryland 20852.


(3) The transportation, shipment, receipt, or importation of explosive materials for delivery to any agency of the United States or to any State or its political subdivision.


(4) Small arms ammunition and components of small arms ammunition.


(5) The manufacture under the regulation of the military department of the United States of explosive materials for, or their distribution to or storage or possession by, the military or naval services or other agencies of the United States.


(6) Arsenals, navy yards, depots, or other establishments owned by, or operated by or on behalf of, the United States.


(7) The importation, distribution, and storage of fireworks classified as UN0336, UN0337, UN0431, or UN0432 explosives by the U.S. Department of Transportation at 49 CFR 172.101 and generally known as “consumer fireworks” or “articles pyrotechnic.”


(8) Gasoline, fertilizers, propellant actuated devices, or propellant actuated industrial tools manufactured, imported, or distributed for their intended purposes.


(9) Industrial and laboratory chemicals which are intended for use as reagents and which are packaged and shipped pursuant to U.S. Department of Transportation regulations, 49 CFR Parts 100 to 177, which do not require explosives hazard warning labels.


(10) Model rocket motors that meet all of the following criteria—


(i) Consist of ammonium perchlorate composite propellant, black powder, or other similar low explosives;


(ii) Contain no more than 62.5 grams of total propellant weight; and


(iii) Are designed as single-use motors or as reload kits capable of reloading no more than 62.5 grams of propellant into a reusable motor casing.


(b) *Black powder.* Except for the provisions applicable to persons required to be licensed under subpart D, this part does not apply with respect to commercially manufactured black powder in quantities not to exceed 50 pounds, percussion caps, safety and pyrotechnic fuses, quills, quick and slow matches, and friction primers, if the black powder is intended to be used solely for sporting, recreational, or cultural purposes in antique firearms, as defined in 18 U.S.C. 921(a)(16) or antique devices, as exempted from the term “destructive devices” in 18 U.S.C. 921(a)(4).



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-87, 46 FR 40384, Aug. 7, 1981, as amended by T.D. ATF-87, 46 FR 46916, Sept. 23, 1981; T.D. ATF-293, 55 FR 3722, Feb. 5, 1990; T.D. ATF-387, 62 FR 8377, Feb. 25, 1997; T.D. ATF-400, 63 FR 45003, Aug. 24, 1998; ATF No. 1, 68 FR 13792, Mar. 20, 2003; ATF 6F, 71 FR 46101, Aug. 11, 2006; ATF 2013R-9F, 79 FR 46694, Aug. 11, 2014]




