# § 1081.103   Definitions.

For the purposes of this part, unless explicitly stated to the contrary:


*Adjudication proceeding* means a proceeding conducted pursuant to section 1053 of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5563) and intended to lead to the formulation of a final order other than a temporary order to cease and desist issued pursuant to section 1053(c) of that Act (12 U.S.C. 5563(c)).


*Bureau* means the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.


*Chief hearing officer* means the hearing officer charged with assigning hearing officers to specific proceedings, in the event there is more than one hearing officer available to the Bureau.


*Counsel* means any person representing a party pursuant to § 1081.107.


*Decisional employee* means any employee of the Bureau who has not engaged in an investigative or prosecutorial role in a proceeding and who may assist the Director or the hearing officer, respectively, in preparing orders, preliminary findings and conclusions, decisions, and other documents under this part.


*Director* means the Director of the Bureau or a person authorized to perform the functions of the Director in accordance with the law.


*Enforcement counsel* means any individual who files a notice of appearance as counsel on behalf of the Enforcement Division in an adjudication proceeding.




*Enforcement Division* means the unit of the Bureau responsible for enforcement of Federal consumer financial law or other laws enforceable by the Bureau.










*Final order* means an order issued by the Bureau with or without the consent of the respondent, which has become final, without regard to the pendency of any petition for reconsideration or review.


*General Counsel* means the General Counsel of the Bureau or any Bureau employee to whom the General Counsel has delegated authority to act under this part.


*Hearing officer* means an administrative law judge or any other person duly authorized to preside at a hearing.


*Notice of charges* means the pleading that commences an adjudication proceeding, as described in § 1081.200, except that it does not include a stipulation and consent order under § 1081.200(d).


*Office of Administrative Adjudication* means the office of the Bureau responsible for conducting adjudication proceedings.


*Party* means the Enforcement Division, any person named as a party in any notice of charges issued pursuant to this part, and, to the extent applicable, any person who intervenes in the proceeding pursuant to § 1081.119(a) to seek a protective order.


*Person* means an individual, partnership, company, corporation, association (incorporated or unincorporated), trust, estate, cooperative organization, or other entity.


*Person employed by the Bureau* means Bureau employees, contractors, agents, and others acting for or on behalf of the Bureau, or at its direction, including consulting experts.


*Respondent* means the party named in the notice of charges.


*State* means any State, territory, or possession of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, American Samoa, or the United States Virgin Islands or any federally recognized Indian tribe, as defined by the Secretary of the Interior under section 104(a) of the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994, 25 U.S.C. 479a-1(a).



---

[N] [87 FR 10034, Feb. 22, 2022, as amended at 89 FR 94601, Nov. 29, 2024]










