# ยง 802.13   Verifying your identity.

(a) *Requests for your own records.* When you make a request for access to records about yourself, you must verify your identity. You must state your full name, current address, and date and place of birth. You must sign your request and your signature must either be notarized or submitted by you under 28 U.S.C. 1746. In order to help the identification and location of requested records, you may also, at your option, include your social security number. 


(b) *Requests on behalf of another.* Information that concerns an individual and that is contained in a system of records maintained by the Agency shall not be disclosed to any person, or to another agency, except under the provisions of the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a, or the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552. 


(c) *Disclosure criteria.* Staff may disclose information from an agency system of records only if one or more of the following criteria apply: 


(1) With the written consent of the individual to whom the record pertains. 


(2) Pursuant to a specific exception listed under the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a(b)). For example, specific exceptions allow disclosure: 


(i) To employees within the Agency who have a need for the record in the performance of their duties. 


(ii) If disclosure is required under FOIA when the public interest in disclosure of the information outweighs the privacy interest involved. 


(iii) For a routine use described in the agency system of records as published in the _Federal Register._

(A) The published notices for these systems describe the records contained in each system and the routine uses for disclosing these records without first obtaining the consent of the person to whom the records pertain. 


(B) CSOSA publishes notices of system of records, including all pertinent routine uses, in the _Federal Register._

