# ยง 52.423   Base year emissions inventory.

EPA approves as a revision to the Delaware State Implementation Plan the 1990 base year emission inventories for the Delaware ozone nonattainment areas submitted by the Secretary of the Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control on May 27, 1994. This submittal consists of the 1990 base year point, area, non-road mobile, biogenic and on-road mobile source emission inventories in area for the following pollutants: volatile organic compounds (VOC), carbon monoxide (CO), and oxides of nitrogen (NO_X_). 


(a) [Reserved]


(b) EPA approves as a revision to the Delaware State Implementation Plan the 2002 base year emissions inventories for the Delaware portion of the Philadelphia 1997 8-hour ozone moderate nonattainment area submitted by the Secretary of the Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control on June 13, 2007. This submittal consists of the 2002 base year point, area, non-road mobile, and on-road mobile source inventories in area for the following pollutants: Volatile organic compounds (VOC), carbon monoxide (CO) and nitrogen oxides (NO_X_).


(c) EPA approves as a revision to the Delaware State Implementation Plan for the 2002 base year emissions inventory for the Delaware 1997 annual fine particulate matter (PM_2.5_) nonattainment area submitted by the Delaware Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control on April 3, 2008. The 2002 base year emissions inventory includes emissions estimates that cover the general source categories of point sources, non-road mobile sources, area sources, on-road mobile sources, and biogenic sources. The pollutants that comprise the inventory are nitrogen oxides (NO_X_), volatile organic compounds (VOCs), PM_2.5_, coarse particles (PM_10_), ammonia (NH_3_), and sulfur dioxide (SO_2_).


(d) EPA approves as a revision to the Delaware State Implementation Plan the comprehensive emissions inventory for the Delaware portion of the Philadelphia-Wilmington, PA-NJ-DE 2006 24-hour fine particulate matter (PM_2.5_) nonattainment area submitted by the Delaware Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control on December 12, 2012. The 2007 year emissions inventory includes emissions estimates that cover the general source categories of point sources, non-road mobile sources, area sources, on-road mobile sources, and biogenic sources for New Castle County, Delaware. The pollutants that comprise the inventory are nitrogen oxides (NO_X_), volatile organic compounds (VOCs), PM_2.5_, ammonia (NH_3_), and sulfur dioxide (SO_2_).


(e) EPA approves as a revision to the Delaware State Implementation Plan the 2011 base year emissions inventory for New Castle and Sussex Counties for the 2008 8-hour ozone national ambient air quality standard submitted by the Delaware Department of the Natural Resources and Environmental Control on April 23, 2015. The 2011 base year emissions inventory includes emissions estimates that cover the general source categories of point sources, nonroad mobile sources, area sources, onroad mobile sources, and biogenic sources. The pollutants that comprise the inventory are nitrogen oxides (NO_X_), volatile organic compounds (VOC), and carbon monoxide (CO).



---

[N] [61 FR 1841, Jan. 24, 1996, as amended at 75 FR 17865, Apr. 8, 2010; 78 FR 14022, Mar. 4, 2013; 79 FR 45353, Aug. 5, 2014; 80 FR 59054, Oct. 1, 2015]




