# ยง 17.419   Health care professionals' practice in VA.

(a) *Definitions.* The following definitions apply to this section.


(1) *Beneficiary.* The term beneficiary means a veteran or any other individual receiving health care under title 38 of the United States Code.


(2) *Health care professional.* The term health care professional is an individual who:


(i) Is appointed to an occupation in the Veterans Health Administration that is listed in or authorized under 38 U.S.C. 7306, 7401, 7405, 7406, or 7408 or title 5 of the U.S. Code;


(ii) Is not a VA-contracted health care professional; and


(iii) Is qualified to provide health care as follows:


(A) Has an active, current, full, and unrestricted license, registration, certification, or satisfies another State requirement in a State;


(B) Has other qualifications as prescribed by the Secretary for one of the health care professions listed under 38 U.S.C. 7402(b);


(C) Is an employee otherwise authorized by the Secretary to provide health care services; or


(D) Is under the clinical supervision of a health care professional that meets the requirements of subsection (a)(2)(iii)(A)-(C) of this section and is either:


(*i*) A health professions trainee appointed under 38 U.S.C. 7405 or 7406 participating in clinical or research training under supervision to satisfy program or degree requirements; or


(*ii*) A health care employee, appointed under title 5 of the U.S. Code, 38 U.S.C. 7401(1) or (3), or 38 U.S.C. 7405 for any category of personnel described in 38 U.S.C. 7401(1) or (3) who must obtain an active, current, full and unrestricted licensure, registration, certification, or meet the qualification standards as defined by the Secretary within the specified time frame.


(3) *State.* The term State means a State as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(20), or a political subdivision of such a State.


(b) *Health care professional's practice.* (1) When a State law or license, registration, certification, or other requirement prevents or unduly interferes with a health care professional's practice within the scope of their VA employment, the health care professional is required to abide by their Federal duties, which includes, but is not limited to, the following situations:


(i) A health care professional may practice their VA health care profession in any State irrespective of the State where they hold a valid license, registration, certification, or other State qualification; or


(ii) A health care professional may practice their VA health care profession within the scope of the VA national standard of practice as determined by VA.


(2) VA health care professional's practice is subject to the limitations imposed by the Controlled Substances Act, 21 U.S.C. 801 *et seq.* and implementing regulations at 21 CFR 1300 *et seq.,* on the authority to prescribe or administer controlled substances, as well as any other limitations on the provision of VA care set forth in applicable Federal law and policy.


(c) *Preemption of State law.* Pursuant to the Supremacy Clause, U.S. Const. art. IV, cl. 2, and in order to achieve important Federal interests, including, but not limited to, the ability to provide the same complete health care and hospital service to beneficiaries in all States as required by 38 U.S.C. 7301, conflicting State laws, rules, regulations or requirements pursuant to such laws are without any force or effect, and State governments have no legal authority to enforce them in relation to actions by health care professionals within the scope of their VA employment.



---

[N] [85 FR 71845, Nov. 12, 2020]




