# § 60.124a   Monitoring requirements.

(a) The owner shall comply with the applicable monitoring requirements specified in § 60.13.


(b) The owner shall prepare, and at all times operate according to, an SOP manual that describes in detail procedures for inspection, maintenance, and bag leak detection and corrective action plans for all baghouses (fabric filters or cartridge filters) used to reduce PM and opacity emissions from any affected source subject to the emissions standards in § 60.122a.


(c) The owner shall submit the SOP manual for the baghouses (fabric filters or cartridge collectors) described in paragraph (b) of this section to the Administrator or delegated authority for review and approval.


(d) The procedures specified in the SOP manual for inspections and routine maintenance shall, at a minimum, include the requirements of paragraphs (d)(1) through (9) of this section.


(1) Daily monitoring of the pressure drop across each baghouse cell.


(2) Weekly confirmation that dust is being removed from hoppers through visual inspection, or equivalent means of ensuring the proper functioning of removal mechanisms.


(3) Daily check of compressed air supply for pulse-jet baghouses.


(4) An appropriate methodology for monitoring cleaning cycles to ensure proper operation.


(5) Monthly check of bag cleaning mechanisms for proper functioning through visual inspection or equivalent means.


(6) Monthly check of bag tension on reverse air and shaker-type baghouses. Such checks are not required for shaker-type baghouses using self-tensioning (spring loaded) devices.


(7) Quarterly confirmation of the physical integrity of the baghouse through visual inspection of the baghouse interior for air leaks.


(8) Quarterly inspection of fans for wear, material buildup, and corrosion through visual inspection, vibration detectors, or equivalent means.


(9) Continuous operation of a bag leak detection system.


(e) The procedures specified in the SOP manual for baghouse maintenance shall include, at a minimum, a preventative maintenance schedule that is consistent with the baghouse manufacturer's instructions for routine and long-term maintenance.


(f) The bag leak detection system required by paragraph (d)(9) of this section, shall meet the specification and requirements of paragraphs (f)(1) through (8) of this section.


(1) The bag leak detection system shall be certified by the manufacturer to be capable of detecting PM emissions at concentrations of 50.0 mg/dscm (0.022 gr/dscf) or less.


(2) The bag leak detection system sensor shall provide output of relative PM loadings.


(3) The bag leak detection system shall be equipped with an alarm system that will alarm when an increase in relative particulate loadings is detected over a preset level.


(4) The owner shall install and operate the bag leak detection system in a manner consistent with the guidance provided in EPA-454/R-98-015, Office of Air quality Planning and Standards (OAQPS) Fabric Filter Bag Leak Detection Guidance (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17) or the manufacturer's written specifications and recommendations for installation, operation, and adjustment of the system.


(5) The initial adjustment of the system shall, at a minimum, consist of establishing the baseline output by adjusting the sensitivity (range) and the averaging period of the device, and establishing the alarm set points and the alarm delay time.


(6) Following initial adjustment, the owner shall not adjust the sensitivity or range, averaging period, alarm set points, or alarm delay time, except as detailed in the approved SOP manual required under paragraph (b) of this section. The owner cannot increase the sensitivity by more than 100 percent or decrease the sensitivity by more than 50 percent over a 365-day period unless such adjustment follows a complete baghouse inspection that demonstrates that the baghouse is in good operating condition.


(7) For negative pressure, induced air baghouses, and positive pressure baghouses that are discharged to the atmosphere through a stack, the owner shall install the bag leak detector downstream of the baghouse and upstream of any wet acid gas scrubber.


(8) Where multiple detectors are required, the system's instrumentation and alarm may be shared among detectors.


(g) The owner shall include in the SOP manual required by paragraph (b) of this section a corrective action plan that specifies the procedures to be followed in the case of a bag leak detection system alarm. The corrective action plan shall include, at a minimum, the procedures used to determine and record the time and cause of the alarm as well as the corrective actions taken to minimize emissions as specified in paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) The procedures used to determine the cause of the alarm shall be initiated within 30 minutes of the alarm.


(2) The cause of the alarm shall be alleviated by taking the necessary corrective action(s) that may include, but not be limited to, those listed in paragraphs (g)(2)(i) through (vi) of this section.


(i) Inspecting the baghouse for air leaks, torn or broken filter elements, or any other malfunction that may cause an increase in emissions.


(ii) Sealing off defective bags or filter media.


(iii) Replacing defective bags or filter media, or otherwise repairing the control device.


(iv) Sealing off a defective baghouse compartment.


(v) Cleaning the bag leak detection system probe, or otherwise repairing the bag leak detection system.


(vi) Shutting down the process producing the PM emissions.


(h) Baghouses equipped with high-efficiency particulate air (HEPA) filters as a secondary filter used to control emissions from any source subject to the PM and opacity emission standards in § 60.122a are exempt from the requirement to be equipped with a bag leak detection system. The owner or operator shall monitor and record the pressure drop across each HEPA filter system daily. If the pressure drop is outside the limit(s) specified by the filter manufacturer, the owner or operator shall take appropriate corrective measures, which may include but not be limited to those given in paragraphs (h)(1) through (4) of this section.


(1) Inspecting the filter and filter housing for air leaks and torn or broken filters.


(2) Replacing defective filter media, or otherwise repairing the control device.


(3) Sealing off a defective control device by routing air to other control devices.


(4) Shutting down the process producing the particulate emissions.


(i) Baghouses followed by a wet electrostatic precipitator (WESP) used as a secondary control device for any source subject to the PM and opacity emission standards in § 60.122a are exempt from the requirement to be equipped with a bag leak detection system.


(j) If a wet scrubber is used to demonstrate continuous compliance with the PM emissions standards for blast and reverberatory furnaces specified in § 60.122a(a), the owner or operator shall monitor and record the pressure drop and water flow rate of the wet scrubber during the initial performance or annual compliance test conducted to demonstrate compliance with the PM emissions limit under § 60.122a(a). Thereafter, the owner or operator shall monitor and record the pressure drop and water flow rate values at least once every hour and maintain the pressure drop and water flow rate at levels no lower than 30 percent below the pressure drop and water flow rate measured during the initial performance or compliance test.


(k) During the initial performance test required by § 60.123a(a), or any periodic performance test required by § 60.123a(b), the owner or operator shall establish the value or range of values of the monitoring parameter(s) for each control device used to comply with the PM and opacity emission standards specified in § 60.122a.


(l) If an affected source is subject to the monitoring requirements specified in 40 CFR part 63, subpart X (National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Secondary Lead Smelting) and those requirements are as stringent or more stringent than the monitoring requirements specified in paragraphs (a) through (j) of this section compliance with 40 CFR part 63, subpart X also demonstrates compliance with the monitoring requirements specified in paragraphs (a) through (k) of this section.






