# § 9008.9   Receipt of goods and services from commercial vendors.

Commercial vendors may sell, lease, rent or provide their goods or services to the national committee with respect to a presidential nominating convention at reduced or discounted rates, or at no charge, provided that the requirements of either paragraph (a), paragraph (b), or paragraph (c) of this section are met. For purposes of this section, *commercial vendor* shall have the same meaning as provided in 11 CFR 116.1(c).


(a) *Standard reductions or discounts.* A commercial vendor may provide reductions or discounts in the ordinary course of business. A reduction or discount shall be considered in the ordinary course of business if the commercial vendor has an established practice of providing the same reductions or discounts for the same amount of its goods or services to non-political clients, or if the reduction or discount is consistent with established practice in the commercial vendor's trade or industry. Examples of reductions or discounts made in the ordinary course of business include standard volume discounts and reduced rates for corporate, governmental or preferred customers. Reductions or discounts provided under paragraph (a) of this section need not be reported.


(b) *Items provided for promotional consideration.* (1) A commercial vendor may provide goods or services in exchange for promotional consideration provided that doing so is in the ordinary course of business.


(2) The provision of goods or services shall be considered in the ordinary course of business under this paragraph:


(i) If the commercial vendor has an established practice of providing goods or services on a similar scale and on similar terms to non-political clients, or


(ii) If the terms and conditions under which the goods or services are provided are consistent with established practice in the commercial vendor's trade or industry in similar circumstances.


(3) In all cases, the value of the goods or services provided shall not exceed the commercial benefit reasonably expected to be derived from the unique promotional opportunity presented by the national nominating convention.


(4) The convention committee shall maintain documentation showing: the goods or services provided; the date(s) on which the goods or services were provided, the terms and conditions of the arrangement; and what promotional consideration was provided. In addition, the convention committee shall disclose in its report covering the period the goods or services are received, in a memo entry, a description of the goods or services provided for promotional consideration, the name and address of the commercial vendor, and the dates on which the goods or services were provided (e.g., “Generic Motor Co., Detroit, Michigan—ten automobiles for use 7/15-7/20, received on 7/14”, or “Workers Inc., New York, New York—five temporary secretarial assistants for use 8/1-8/30, received on 8/1”).


(c) *Items of de minimis value.* Commercial vendors (including banks) may sell at nominal cost, or provide at no charge, items of *de minimis* value, such as samples, discount coupons, maps, pens, pencils, or other items included in tote bags for those attending the convention. The items of *de minimis* value may be distributed by or with the help of persons employed by the commercial vendor, or employed by or volunteering for the national party or a host committee. The value of the items of *de minimis* value provided under this paragraph need not be reported.


(d) *Expenditure Limits.* The value of goods or services provided pursuant to this section will not count toward the national party's expenditure limitation under 11 CFR 9008.8(a).




