# § 113.67   Erysipelothrix Rhusiopathiae Vaccine.

Erysipelothrix Rhusiopathiae Vaccine shall be prepared as a desiccated live culture of an avirulent or modified strain of *Erysipelothrix rhusiopathiae.* Only Master Seed which has been established as pure, safe, and immunogenic shall be used for vaccine production.


(a) The Master Seed shall meet the applicable requirements prescribed in § 113.64 and the requirements in this section.


(b) Each lot of Master Seed used for vaccine production shall be tested for immunogenicity. The selected bacterial count from the lot of Master Seed shall be established as follows:


(1) Thirty *Erysipelothrix rhusiopathiae* susceptible swine shall be used as test animals (20 vaccinates and 10 controls) for each route of administration recommended on the label.


(2) An arithmetic mean count of the colony forming units from vaccine produced from the highest passage of the Master Seed shall be established before the immunogenicity test is conducted. The 20 swine to be used as vaccinates shall be injected as recommended on the label with a predetermined quantity of vaccine bacteria. The 10 control swine shall be held separately from the vaccinates. To confirm the dosage calculation, an arithmetic mean count shall be established by conducting five replicate titrations on a sample of the bacterial vaccine dilution used. Only plates containing between 30 and 300 colonies shall be considered in a valid test.


(3) The vaccinates and controls shall be examined and their average body temperature determined prior to challenge. Fourteen to twenty-one days postvaccination, the vaccinates and controls shall be challenged with a virulent *Erysipelothrix rhusiopathiae* culture and observed for 7 days. The challenge culture and instructions for preparation and use shall be obtained from Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.


(4) A satisfactory challenge shall be evidenced in the controls by a high body temperature or clinical signs including, but not limited to acute illness with hyperemia of the abdomen and ears, possibly terminating in sudden death; moribundity, with or without metastatic skin lesions; depression with anorexia, stiffness, and/or joint involvement; or any combination of these symptoms and lesions.


(5) If at least 80 percent of the controls do not show characteristic signs during the observation period including, but not limited to a body temperature of 105.6 °F or higher on at least 2 consecutive days, the test shall be considered a No Test: *Provided,* That control pigs which meet the criteria requirements for susceptibility except for high body temperature shall be considered susceptible if sacrificed and organisms identified as *Erysipelothrix rhusiopathiae* can be isolated from the blood, spleen, or other organs.


(6) To demonstrate immunity after challenge, the vaccinates shall remain free of clinical signs and the body temperature shall not exceed 104.6 °F on 2 or more consecutive days. If at least 90 percent of the vaccinates do not remain free from clinical signs and high body temperature throughout the observation period, the Master Seed is unsatisfactory.


(7) An Outline of Production change shall be made before authority for use of a new Master Seed shall be granted by Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.


(c) *Test requirements for release.* Each serial and subserial shall meet the applicable requirements in § 113.64 and the requirements in this paragraph. Any serial or subserial found unsatisfactory by a prescribed test shall not be released.


(1) *Safety test.* Samples of completed product from each serial or first subserial shall be tested for safety in young adult mice as prescribed in § 113.33(b) and in swine as prescribed in § 113.44.


(2) *Bacterial count requirements.* Final container samples of completed product from each serial and each subserial shall be tested for bacterial count using the method used in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. Two replicate titrations shall be conducted on each sample. To be eligible for release, each serial and subserial shall have a bacterial count sufficiently greater than that of the vaccine used in the immunogenicity test to assure that, when tested at any time within the expiration period, each serial and subserial shall have a bacterial count two times greater than that used in such immunogenicity test.



---

[N] [50 FR 23795, June 6, 1985, as amended at 56 FR 66784, Dec. 26, 1991; 72 FR 72564, Dec. 21, 2007]




