# § 429.74   Department of Energy recognition of accreditation bodies for electric motors, including dedicated-purpose pool pump motors.

(a) *Petition.* To be classified by the Department of Energy as an accreditation body, an organization must submit a petition to the Department requesting such classification, in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section and § 429.75. The petition must demonstrate that the organization meets the criteria in paragraph (b) of this section.


(b) *Evaluation criteria.* To be classified as an accreditation body by the Department, the organization must meet the following criteria:


(1) It must have satisfactory standards and procedures for conducting and administering an accreditation system and for granting accreditation. This must include provisions for periodic audits to verify that the laboratories receiving its accreditation continue to conform to the criteria by which they were initially accredited, and for withdrawal of accreditation where such conformance does not occur, including failure to provide accurate test results.


(2) It must be independent (as defined at § 429.2) of electric motor manufacturers, importers, distributors, private labelers or vendors for which it is providing accreditation.


(3) It must be qualified to perform the accrediting function in a highly competent manner.


(4)(i) In the case of electric motors subject to requirements in subpart B of part 431 of this subchapter, the organization must be an expert in the content and application of the test procedures and methodologies at § 431.16 of this subchapter and § 429.64.


(ii) In the case of dedicated-purpose pool pump motors subject to requirements in subpart Z of part 431 of this subchapter, the organization must be an expert in the content and application of the test procedures and methodologies at § 431.484 of this subchapter and § 429.65.


(c) *Petition format.* Each petition requesting classification as an accreditation body must contain a narrative statement as to why the program meets the criteria set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, must be signed on behalf of the organization operating the program by an authorized representative, and must be accompanied by documentation that supports the narrative statement. The following provides additional guidance:


(1) *Standards and procedures.* A copy of the organization's standards and procedures for operating an accreditation system and for granting accreditation should accompany the petition.


(2) *Independent status.* The petitioning organization must describe how it is independent (as defined at § 429.2) from electric motor manufacturers, importers, distributors, private labelers, vendors, and trade associations.


(3) *Qualifications to do accrediting.* Experience in accrediting should be discussed and substantiated by supporting documents. Of particular relevance would be documentary evidence that establishes experience in the application of guidelines contained in the ISO/IEC Guide 58, “Calibration and testing laboratory accreditation systems—General requirements for operation and recognition” (referenced for guidance only, *see* § 429.3), as well as experience in overseeing compliance with the guidelines contained in the ISO/IEC Guide 25, “General Requirements for the Competence of Calibration and Testing Laboratories” (referenced for guidance only, *see* § 429.3).


(4) *Expertise in test procedures.* The petition should set forth the organization's experience with the test procedures and methodologies test procedures and methodologies at § 431.16 of this subchapter and § 429.64. This part of the petition should include items such as, but not limited to, a description of prior projects and qualifications of staff members. Of particular relevance would be documentary evidence that establishes experience in applying the guidelines contained in the ISO/IEC Guide 25, “General Requirements for the Competence of Calibration and Testing Laboratories,” (referenced for guidance only, *see* § 429.3) to energy efficiency testing for electric motors.


(d) *Disposition.* The Department will evaluate the petition in accordance with § 429.75, and will determine whether the applicant meets the criteria in paragraph (b) of this section for classification as an accrediting body.



---

[N] [87 FR 63652, Oct. 19, 2022]




