# § 520.154a   Bacitracin methylenedisalicylate.

(a) *Specifications.* Each pound of soluble powder contains the equivalent of 50 grams of bacitracin activity for use as in paragraph (d)(1) or (d)(2) of this section, or the equivalent of 200 grams of bacitracin activity for use as in paragraph (d) of this section.


(b) *Sponsor.* See No. 054771 in § 510.600(c) of this chapter.


(c) *Related tolerances.* See § 556.70 of this chapter.


(d) *Conditions of use*—(1) *Broiler and replacement chickens*—(i) *Amount.* 100 mg per gal in drinking water.


(A) *Indications for use.* Aid in the prevention of necrotic enteritis caused by *Clostridium perfringens* susceptible to bacitracin methylenedisalicylate.


(B) *Limitations.* Prepare a fresh solution daily. Use as the sole source of drinking water. 








(ii) *Amount.* 200 to 400 mg per gal in drinking water. Administer continuously 5 to 7 days or as long as clinical signs persist, then reduce to prevention levels (100 mg/gal).


(A) *Indications for use.* Treatment of necrotic enteritis caused by *C. perfringens* susceptible to bacitracin methylenedisalicylate. 


(B) *Limitations.* Prepare a fresh solution daily. Use as the sole source of drinking water.








(2) *Growing turkeys*—(i) *Amount.* 400 milligrams (mg) per gallon (gal) in drinking water.


(ii) *Indications for use.* Aid in the control of transmissible enteritis complicated by organisms susceptible to bacitracin methylenedisalicylate.


(iii) *Limitations.* Prepare a fresh solution daily. Use as the sole source of drinking water.






(3) *Swine*—(i) *Amount.* 1 gram per gallon in drinking water.


(ii) *Indications for use.* Treatment of swine dysentery associated with *Brachyspira hyodysenteriae.* Administer continuously for 7 days or until signs of dysentery disappear.




(iii) *Limitations.* Prepare a fresh solution daily. Use as the sole source of drinking water. Treatment not to exceed 14 days. Not to be given to swine that weigh more than 250 pounds.






(4) *Growing quail*—(i) *Amount.* 400 mg per gal in drinking water.


(ii) *Indications for use.* For prevention of ulcerative enteritis due to *Clostridium colinum* susceptible to bacitracin methylenedisalicylate.


(iii) *Limitations.* Prepare fresh solution daily. Use as sole source of drinking water.



---

[N] [57 FR 37322, Aug. 18, 1992; 57 FR 42623, Sept. 15, 1992, as amended at 63 FR 38474, July 17, 1998; 64 FR 13068, Mar. 17, 1999; 76 FR 53050, Aug. 25, 2011; 79 FR 28818, May 20, 2014; 80 FR 34278, June 16, 2015; 88 FR 14897, Mar. 10, 2023]




