# ยง 1710.115   Notice of salary offset from another agency.

(a) *Complete claim.* When the Board receives a certified claim from a creditor agency, deductions should be scheduled to begin at the next officially established pay interval. The Board's finance office will provide the employee with a notice that contains:


(1) A statement that the Board has received a certified debt claim from the creditor agency;


(2) The amount of the debt claim;


(3) The date salary offset deductions will begin;


(4) The amount of such deductions; and


(5) A copy of the notice received from the creditor agency.


(b) *Notice of Claim.* The Board's finance office will provide a copy of the notice to the creditor agency and advise the creditor agency of the dollar amount to be offset and the pay period when the offset will begin.


(c) *Incomplete claim.* When the Board receives an incomplete certification of debt from a creditor agency, it must return the debt claim with notice that procedures under 5 U.S.C. 5514 and 10 CFR 1710.113 must be followed and a properly certified debt claim received before action will be taken to collect from the employee's current pay account.


(d) *Review.* The Board will not review the merits of the creditor agency's determination with respect to the amount or validity of the debt certified by the creditor agency.


(e) *Employees who transfer from one paying agency to another.* If, after the creditor agency has submitted the debt claim to the Board, the employee transfers from the Board to a different paying agency before the debt is collected in full, the Board will certify the total amount collected on the debt. One copy of the certification will be furnished to the employee and one copy to the creditor agency, along with notice of the employee's transfer.






