# ยง 143.8   Inflation-adjusted civil monetary penalties.

(a) *Statutory inflation adjustment of civil monetary penalties.* The Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990, as amended, requires annual inflation adjustments to the civil monetary penalties imposed under the Commodity Exchange Act for violations that occurred on or after November 2, 2015. The Commission will publish notice of these adjusted penalty amounts in the _Federal Register._ The inflation adjustment is calculated by multiplying the maximum dollar amount of the civil monetary penalty for the previous calendar year by the cost-of-living inflation adjustment multiplier provided by the Office Management and Budget, which is based on the change in the Consumer Price Index, and rounding the total to the nearest dollar. Set forth in the charts in paragraph (b) of this section are the inflation adjusted penalty amounts for violations occurring on or after November 2, 2015 and the penalty amounts for violations that occurred prior to November 2, 2015. These penalty charts are also available on the Commission's website at: *http://www.cftc.gov/LawRegulation/Enforcement/InflationAdjustedCivilMonetaryPenalties/index.htm.*

(b) *2025 Inflation adjustment.* The maximum amount of each civil monetary penalty in the following charts applies to penalties assessed after January 15, 2025:


(1) For violations other than manipulation or attempted manipulation:


(2) For manipulation or attempted manipulation violations:





---

[N] [83 FR 9428, Mar. 6, 2018, as amended at 88 FR 1502, Jan. 11, 2023; 89 FR 4544, Jan. 24, 2024; 90 FR 8113, Jan. 24, 2025]







