# § 1.170A-14   Qualified conservation contributions.

(a) *Qualified conservation contributions.* A deduction under section 170 of the Internal Revenue Code (Code) is generally not allowed for a charitable contribution of any interest in property that consists of less than the donor's entire interest in the property other than certain transfers in trust (*see* § 1.170A-6 relating to charitable contributions in trust and § 1.170A-7 relating to contributions not in trust of partial interests in property). However, a deduction may be allowed under section 170(f)(3)(B)(iii) for the value of a qualified conservation contribution if the requirements of this section are met and the contribution is not a disallowed qualified conservation contribution within the meaning of paragraph (j) of this section. A *qualified conservation contribution* is the contribution of a qualified real property interest to a qualified organization exclusively for conservation purposes. To be eligible for a deduction under section 170(h) and this section, the conservation purpose must be protected in perpetuity.




(b) *Qualified real property interest*—(1) *Entire interest of donor other than qualified mineral interest.* (i) The entire interest of the donor other than a qualified mineral interest is a qualified real property interest. A qualified mineral interest is the donor's interest in subsurface oil, gas, or other minerals and the right of access to such minerals.


(ii) A real property interest shall not be treated as an entire interest other than a qualified mineral interest by reason of section 170(h)(2)(A) and this paragraph (b)(1) if the property in which the donor's interest exists was divided prior to the contribution in order to enable the donor to retain control of more than a qualified mineral interest or to reduce the real property interest donated. See Treasury regulations § 1.170A-7(a)(2)(i). An entire interest in real property may consist of an undivided interest in the property. But see section 170(h)(5)(A) and the regulations thereunder (relating to the requirement that the conservation purpose which is the subject of the donation must be protected in perpetuity). Minor interests, such as rights-of-way, that will not interfere with the conservation purposes of the donation, may be transferred prior to the conservation contribution without affecting the treatment of a property interest as a qualified real property interest under this paragraph (b)(1).


(2) *Perpetual conservation restriction.* A “perpetual conservation restriction” is a qualified real property interest. A “perpetual conservation restriction” is a restriction granted in perpetuity on the use which may be made of real property—including, an easement or other interest in real property that under state law has attributes similar to an easement (e.g., a restrictive covenant or equitable servitude). For purposes of this section, the terms *easement, conservation restriction,* and *perpetual conservation restriction* have the same meaning. The definition of *perpetual conservation restriction* under this paragraph (b)(2) is not intended to preclude the deductibility of a donation of affirmative rights to use a land or water area under § 1.170A-13(d)(2). Any rights reserved by the donor in the donation of a perpetual conservation restriction must conform to the requirements of this section. See *e.g.,* paragraph (d)(4)(ii), (d)(5)(i), (e)(3), and (g)(4) of this section.


(c) *Qualified organization*—(1) *Eligible donee.* To be considered an eligible donee under this section, an organization must be a qualified organization, have a commitment to protect the conservation purposes of the donation, and have the resources to enforce the restrictions. A conservation group organized or operated primarily or substantially for one of the conservation purposes specified in section 170(h)(4)(A) will be considered to have the commitment required by the preceding sentence. A qualified organization need not set aside funds to enforce the restrictions that are the subject of the contribution. For purposes of this section, the term *qualified organization* means:


(i) A governmental unit described in section 170(b)(1)(A)(v);


(ii) An organization described in section 170(b)(1)(A)(vi);


(iii) A charitable organization described in section 501(c)(3) that meets the public support test of section 509(a)(2);


(iv) A charitable organization described in section 501(c)(3) that meets the requirements of section 509(a)(3) and is controlled by an organization described in paragraphs (c)(1) (i), (ii), or (iii) of this section.


(2) *Transfers by donee.* A deduction shall be allowed for a contribution under this section only if in the instrument of conveyance the donor prohibits the donee from subsequently transferring the easement (or, in the case of a remainder interest or the reservation of a qualified mineral interest, the property), whether or not for consideration, unless the donee organization, as a condition of the subsequent transfer, requires that the conservation purposes which the contribution was originally intended to advance continue to be carried out. Moreover, subsequent transfers must be restricted to organizations qualifying, at the time of the subsequent transfer, as an eligible donee under paragraph (c)(1) of this section. When a later unexpected change in the conditions surrounding the property that is the subject of a donation under paragraph (b)(1), (2), or (3) of this section makes impossible or impractical the continued use of the property for conservation purposes, the requirement of this paragraph will be met if the property is sold or exchanged and any proceeds are used by the donee organization in a manner consistent with the conservation purposes of the original contribution. In the case of a donation under paragraph (b)(3) of this section to which the preceding sentence applies, see also paragraph (g)(5)(ii) of this section.


(d) *Conservation purposes*—(1) *In general.* For purposes of section 170(h) and this section, the term *conservation purposes* means—


(i) The preservation of land areas for outdoor recreation by, or the education of, the general public, within the meaning of paragraph (d)(2) of this section,


(ii) The protection of a relatively natural habitat of fish, wildlife, or plants, or similar ecosystem, within the meaning of paragraph (d)(3) of this section, 


(iii) The preservation of certain open space (including farmland and forest land) within the meaning of paragraph (d)(4) of this section, or


(iv) The preservation of a historically important land area or a certified historic structure, within the meaning of paragraph (d)(5) of this section.


(2) *Recreation or education*—(i) *In general.* The donation of a qualified real property interest to preserve land areas for the outdoor recreation of the general public or for the education of the general public will meet the conservation purposes test of this section. Thus, conservation purposes would include, for example, the preservation of a water area for the use of the public for boating or fishing, or a nature or hiking trail for the use of the public.


(ii) *Access.* The preservation of land areas for recreation or education will not meet the test of this section unless the recreation or education is for the substantial and regular use of the general public.


(3) *Protection of environmental system*—(i) *In general.* The donation of a qualified real property interest to protect a significant relatively natural habitat in which a fish, wildlife, or plant community, or similar ecosystem normally lives will meet the conservation purposes test of this section. The fact that the habitat or environment has been altered to some extent by human activity will not result in a deduction being denied under this section if the fish, wildlife, or plants continue to exist there in a relatively natural state. For example, the preservation of a lake formed by a man-made dam or a salt pond formed by a man-made dike would meet the conservation purposes test if the lake or pond were a nature feeding area for a wildlife community that included rare, endangered, or threatened native species.


(ii) *Significant habitat or ecosystem.* Significant habitats and ecosystems include, but are not limited to, habitats for rare, endangered, or threatened species of animal, fish, or plants; natural areas that represent high quality examples of a terrestrial community or aquatic community, such as islands that are undeveloped or not intensely developed where the coastal ecosystem is relatively intact; and natural areas which are included in, or which contribute to, the ecological viability of a local, state, or national park, nature preserve, wildlife refuge, wilderness area, or other similar conservation area.


(iii) *Access.* Limitations on public access to property that is the subject of a donation under this paragraph (d)(3) shall not render the donation nondeductible. For example, a restriction on all public access to the habitat of a threatened native animal species protected by a donation under this paragraph (d)(3) would not cause the donation to be nondeductible.


(4) *Preservation of open space*—(i) *In general.* The donation of a qualified real property interest to preserve open space (including farmland and forest land) will meet the conservation purposes test of this section if such preservation is—


(A) Pursuant to a clearly delineated Federal, state, or local governmental conservation policy and will yield a significant public benefit, or


(B) For the scenic enjoyment of the general public and will yield a significant public benefit.


(ii) *Scenic enjoyment*—(A) *Factors.* A contribution made for the preservation of open space may be for the scenic enjoyment of the general public. Preservation of land may be for the scenic enjoyment of the general public if development of the property would impair the scenic character of the local rural or urban landscape or would interfere with a scenic panorama that can be enjoyed from a park, nature preserve, road, waterbody, trail, or historic structure or land area, and such area or transportation way is open to, or utilized by, the public. “Scenic enjoyment” will be evaluated by considering all pertinent facts and circumstances germane to the contribution. Regional variations in topography, geology, biology, and cultural and economic conditions require flexibility in the application of this test, but do not lessen the burden on the taxpayer to demonstrate the scenic characteristics of a donation under this paragraph. The application of a particular objective factor to help define a view as *scenic* in one setting may in fact be entirely inappropriate in another setting. Among the factors to be considered are:


(*1*) The compatibility of the land use with other land in the vicinity;


(*2*) The degree of contrast and variety provided by the visual scene;


(*3*) The openness of the land (which would be a more significant factor in an urban or densely populated setting or in a heavily wooded area);


(*4*) Relief from urban closeness;


(*5*) The harmonious variety of shapes and textures;


(*6*) The degree to which the land use maintains the scale and character of the urban landscape to preserve open space, visual enjoyment, and sunlight for the surrounding area;


(*7*) The consistency of the proposed scenic view with a methodical state scenic identification program, such as a state landscape inventory; and


(*8*) The consistency of the proposed scenic view with a regional or local landscape inventory made pursuant to a sufficiently rigorous review process, especially if the donation is endorsed by an appropriate state or local governmental agency.


(B) *Access.* To satisfy the requirement of scenic enjoyment by the general public, visual (rather than physical) access to or across the property by the general public is sufficient. Under the terms of an open space easement on scenic property, the entire property need not be visible to the public for a donation to qualify under this section, although the public benefit from the donation may be insufficient to qualify for a deduction if only a small portion of the property is visible to the public.


(iii) *Governmental conservation policy*—(A) *In general.* The requirement that the preservation of open space be pursuant to a clearly delineated Federal, state, or local governmental policy is intended to protect the types of property identified by representatives of the general public as worthy of preservation or conservation. A general declaration of conservation goals by a single official or legislative body is not sufficient. However, a governmental conservation policy need not be a certification program that identifies particular lots or small parcels of individually owned property. This requirement will be met by donations that further a specific, identified conservation project, such as the preservation of land within a state or local landmark district that is locally recognized as being significant to that district; the preservation of a wild or scenic river, the preservation of farmland pursuant to a state program for flood prevention and control; or the protection of the scenic, ecological, or historic character of land that is contiguous to, or an integral part of, the surroundings of existing recreation or conservation sites. For example, the donation of a perpetual conservation restriction to a qualified organization pursuant to a formal resolution or certification by a local governmental agency established under state law specifically identifying the subject property as worthy of protection for conservation purposes will meet the requirement of this paragraph. A program need not be funded to satisfy this requirement, but the program must involve a significant commitment by the government with respect to the conservation project. For example, a governmental program according preferential tax assessment or preferential zoning for certain property deemed worthy of protection for conservation purposes would constitute a significant commitment by the government.


(B) *Effect of acceptance by governmental agency.* Acceptance of an easement by an agency of the Federal Government or by an agency of a state or local government (or by a commission, authority, or similar body duly constituted by the state or local government and acting on behalf of the state or local government) tends to establish the requisite clearly delineated governmental policy, although such acceptance, without more, is not sufficient. The more rigorous the review process by the governmental agency, the more the acceptance of the easement tends to establish the requisite clearly delineated governmental policy. For example, in a state where the legislature has established an Environmental Trust to accept gifts to the state which meet certain conservation purposes and to submit the gifts to a review that requires the approval of the state's highest officials, acceptance of a gift by the Trust tends to establish the requisite clearly delineated governmental policy. However, if the Trust merely accepts such gifts without a review process, the requisite clearly delineated governmental policy is not established.


(C) *Access.* A limitation on public access to property subject to a donation under this paragraph (d)(4)(iii) shall not render the deduction nondeductible unless the conservation purpose of the donation would be undermined or frustrated without public access. For example, a donation pursuant to a governmental policy to protect the scenic character of land near a river requires visual access to the same extent as would a donation under paragraph (d)(4)(ii) of this section.


(iv) *Significant public benefit*—(A) *Factors.* All contributions made for the preservation of open space must yield a significant public benefit. Public benefit will be evaluated by considering all pertinent facts and circumstances germane to the contribution. Factors germane to the evaluation of public benefit from one contribution may be irrelevant in determining public benefit from another contribution. No single factor will necessarily be determinative. Among the factors to be considered are:


(*1*) The uniqueness of the property to the area;


(*2*) The intensity of land development in the vicinity of the property (both existing development and foreseeable trends of development);


(*3*) The consistency of the proposed open space use with public programs (whether Federal, state or local) for conservation in the region, including programs for outdoor recreation, irrigation or water supply protection, water quality maintenance or enhancement, flood prevention and control, erosion control, shoreline protection, and protection of land areas included in, or related to, a government approved master plan or land management area;


(*4*) The consistency of the proposed open space use with existing private conservation programs in the area, as evidenced by other land, protected by easement or fee ownership by organizations referred to in § 1.170A-14(c)(1), in close proximity to the property;


(*5*) The likelihood that development of the property would lead to or contribute to degradation of the scenic, natural, or historic character of the area;


(*6*) The opportunity for the general public to use the property or to appreciate its scenic values;


(*7*) The importance of the property in preserving a local or regional landscape or resource that attracts tourism or commerce to the area;


(*8*) The likelihood that the donee will acquire equally desirable and valuable substitute property or property rights;


(*9*) The cost to the donee of enforcing the terms of the conservation restriction;


(*10*) The population density in the area of the property; and


(*11*) The consistency of the proposed open space use with a legislatively mandated program identifying particular parcels of land for future protection.


(B) *Illustrations.* The preservation of an ordinary tract of land would not in and of itself yield a significant public benefit, but the preservation of ordinary land areas in conjunction with other factors that demonstrate significant public benefit or the preservation of a unique land area for public employment would yield a significant public benefit. For example, the preservation of a vacant downtown lot would not by itself yield a significant public benefit, but the preservation of the downtown lot as a public garden would, absent countervailing factors, yield a significant public benefit. The following are other examples of contributions which would, absent countervailing factors, yield a significant public benefit: The preservation of farmland pursuant to a state program for flood prevention and control; the preservation of a unique natural land formation for the enjoyment of the general public; the preservation of woodland along a public highway pursuant to a government program to preserve the appearance of the area so as to maintain the scenic view from the highway; and the preservation of a stretch of undeveloped property located between a public highway and the ocean in order to maintain the scenic ocean view from the highway.


(v) *Limitation.* A deduction will not be allowed for the preservation of open space under section 170(h)(4)(A)(iii), if the terms of the easement permit a degree of intrusion or future development that would interfere with the essential scenic quality of the land or with the governmental conservation policy that is being furthered by the donation. See § 1.170A-14(e)(2) for rules relating to inconsistent use. 


(vi) *Relationship of requirements*—(A) *Clearly delineated governmental policy and significant public benefit.* Although the requirements of “clearly delineated governmental policy” and “significant public benefit” must be met independently, for purposes of this section the two requirements may also be related. The more specific the governmental policy with respect to the particular site to be protected, the more likely the governmental decision, by itself, will tend to establish the significant public benefit associated with the donation. For example, while a statute in State X permitting preferential assessment for farmland is, by definition, governmental policy, it is distinguishable from a state statute, accompanied by appropriations, naming the X River as a valuable resource and articulating the legislative policy that the X River and the relatively natural quality of its surrounding be protected. On these facts, an open space easement on farmland in State X would have to demonstrate additional factors to establish “significant public benefit.” The specificity of the legislative mandate to protect the X River, however, would by itself tend to establish the significant public benefit associated with an open space easement on land fronting the X River.


(B) *Scenic enjoyment and significant public benefit.* With respect to the relationship between the requirements of “scenic enjoyment” and “significant public benefit,” since the degrees of scenic enjoyment offered by a variety of open space easements are subjective and not as easily delineated as are increasingly specific levels of governmental policy, the significant public benefit of preserving a scenic view must be independently established in all cases.


(C) *Donations may satisfy more than one test.* In some cases, open space easements may be both for scenic enjoyment and pursuant to a clearly delineated governmental policy. For example, the preservation of a particular scenic view identified as part of a scenic landscape inventory by a rigorous governmental review process will meet the tests of both paragraphs (d)(4)(i)(A) and (d)(4)(i)(B) of this section.


(5) *Historic preservation*—(i) *In general.* The donation of a qualified real property interest to preserve an historically important land area or a certified historic structure will meet the conservation purposes test of this section. When restrictions to preserve a building or land area within a registered historic district permit future development on the site, a deduction will be allowed under this section only if the terms of the restrictions require that such development conform with appropriate local, state, or Federal standards for construction or rehabilitation within the district. See also, § 1.170A-14(h)(3)(ii).


(ii) *Historically important land area.* The term *historically important land area* includes: 


(A) An independently significant land area including any related historic resources (for example, an archaeological site or a Civil War battlefield with related monuments, bridges, cannons, or houses) that meets the National Register Criteria for Evaluation in 36 CFR 60.4 (Pub. L. 89-665, 80 Stat. 915); 


(B) Any land area within a registered historic district including any buildings on the land area that can reasonably be considered as contributing to the significance of the district; and 


(C) Any land area (including related historic resources) adjacent to a property listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (but not within a registered historic district) in a case where the physical or environmental features of the land area contribute to the historic or cultural integrity of the property.


(iii) *Certified historic structure.* The term *certified historic structure,* for purposes of this section, means any building, structure or land area which is—


(A) Listed in the National Register, or 


(B) Located in a registered historic district (as defined in section 48(g)(3)(B)) and is certified by the Secretary of the Interior (pursuant to 36 CFR 67.4) to the Secretary of the Treasury as being of historic significance to the district.


(iv) *Access.* (A) In order for a conservation contribution described in section 170(h)(4)(A)(iv) and this paragraph (d)(5) to be deductible, some visual public access to the donated property is required. In the case of an historically important land area, the entire property need not be visible to the public for a donation to qualify under this section. However, the public benefit from the donation may be insufficient to qualify for a deduction if only a small portion of the property is so visible. Where the historic land area or certified historic structure which is the subject of the donation is not visible from a public way (*e.g.,* the structure is hidden from view by a wall or shrubbery, the structure is too far from the public way, or interior characteristics and features of the structure are the subject of the easement), the terms of the easement must be such that the general public is given the opportunity on a regular basis to view the characteristics and features of the property which are preserved by the easement to the extent consistent with the nature and condition of the property.


(B) Factors to be considered in determining the type and amount of public access required under paragraph (d)(5)(iv)(A) of this section include the historical significance of the donated property, the nature of the features that are the subject of the easement, the remoteness or accessibility of the site of the donated property, the possibility of physical hazards to the public visiting the property (for example, an unoccupied structure in a dilapidated condition), the extent to which public access would be an unreasonable intrusion on any privacy interests of individuals living on the property, the degree to which public access would impair the preservation interests which are the subject of the donation, and the availability of opportunities for the public to view the property by means other than visits to the site. 


(C) The amount of access afforded the public by the donation of an easement shall be determined with reference to the amount of access permitted by the terms of the easement which are established by the donor, rather than the amount of access actually provided by the donee organization. However, if the donor is aware of any facts indicating that the amount of access that the donee organization will provide is significantly less than the amount of access permitted under the terms of the easement, then the amount of access afforded the public shall be determined with reference to this lesser amount. 


(v) *Examples.* The provisions of paragraph (d)(5)(iv) of this section may be illustrated by the following examples: 


(e) *Exclusively for conservation purposes*—(1) *In general.* To meet the requirements of this section, a donation must be exclusively for conservation purposes. See paragraphs (c)(1) and (g)(1) through (g)(6)(ii) of this section. A deduction will not be denied under this section when incidental benefit inures to the donor merely as a result of conservation restrictions limiting the uses to which the donor's property may be put.


(2) *Inconsistent use.* Except as provided in paragraph (e)(4) of this section, a deduction will not be allowed if the contribution would accomplish one of the enumerated conservation purposes but would permit destruction of other significant conservation interests. For example, the preservation of farmland pursuant to a State program for flood prevention and control would not qualify under paragraph (d)(4) of this section if under the terms of the contribution a significant naturally occurring ecosystem could be injured or destroyed by the use of pesticides in the operation of the farm. However, this requirement is not intended to prohibit uses of the property, such as selective timber harvesting or selective farming if, under the circumstances, those uses do not impair significant conservation interests.


(3) *Inconsistent use permitted.* A use that is destructive of conservation interests will be permitted only if such use is necessary for the protection of the conservation interests that are the subject of the contribution. For example, a deduction for the donation of an easement to preserve an archaeological site that is listed on the National Register of Historic Places will not be disallowed if site excavation consistent with sound archaeological practices may impair a scenic view of which the land is a part. A donor may continue a pre-existing use of the property that does not conflict with the conservation purposes of the gift.


(f) *Examples.* The provisions of this section relating to conservation purposes may be illustrated by the following examples.


(g) *Enforceable in perpetuity*—(1) *In general.* In the case of any donation under this section, any interest in the property retained by the donor (and the donor's successors in interest) must be subject to legally enforceable restrictions (for example, by recordation in the land records of the jurisdiction in which the property is located) that will prevent uses of the retained interest inconsistent with the conservation purposes of the donation. In the case of a contribution of a remainder interest, the contribution will not qualify if the tenants, whether they are tenants for life or a term of years, can use the property in a manner that diminishes the conservation values which are intended to be protected by the contribution.


(2) *Protection of a conservation purpose in case of donation of property subject to a mortgage.* In the case of conservation contributions made after February 13, 1986, no deducion will be permitted under this section for an interest in property which is subject to a mortgage unless the mortgagee subordinates its rights in the property to the right of the qualified organization to enforce the conservation purposes of the gift in perpetuity. For conservation contributions made prior to February 14, 1986, the requirement of section 170 (h)(5)(A) is satisfied in the case of mortgaged property (with respect to which the mortgagee has not subordinated its rights) only if the donor can demonstrate that the conservation purpose is protected in perpetuity without subordination of the mortgagee's rights.


(3) *Remote future event.* A deduction shall not be disallowed under section 170(f)(3)(B)(iii) and this section merely because the interest which passes to, or is vested in, the donee organization may be defeated by the performance of some act or the happening of some event, if on the date of the gift it appears that the possibility that such act or event will occur is so remote as to be negligible. See paragraph (e) of § 1.170A-1. For example, a state's statutory requirement that use restrictions must be rerecorded every 30 years to remain enforceable shall not, by itself, render an easement nonperpetual.


(4) *Retention of qualified mineral interest*—(i) *In general.* Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (g)(4)(ii) of this section, the requirements of this section are not met and no deduction shall be allowed in the case of a contribution of any interest when there is a retention by any person of a qualified mineral interest (as defined in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section) if at any time there may be extractions or removal of minerals by any surface mining method. Moreover, in the case of a qualified mineral interest gift, the requirement that the conservation purposes be protected in perpetuity is not satisfied if any method of mining that is inconsistent with the particular conservation purposes of a contribution is permitted at any time. See also § 1.170A-14(e)(2). However, a deduction under this section will not be denied in the case of certain methods of mining that may have limited, localized impact on the real property but that are not irremediably destructive of significant conservation interests. For example, a deduction will not be denied in a case where production facilities are concealed or compatible with existing topography and landscape and when surface alteration is to be restored to its original state.


(ii) *Exception for qualified conservation contributions after July 1984.* (A) A contribution made after July 18, 1984, of a qualified real property interest described in section 170(h)(2)(A) shall not be disqualified under the first sentence of paragraph (g)(4)(i) of this section if the following requirements are satisfied. 


(*1*) The ownership of the surface estate and mineral interest were separated before June 13, 1976, and remain so separated up to and including the time of the contribution.


(*2*) The present owner of the mineral interest is not a person whose relationship to the owner of the surface estate is described at the time of the contribution in section 267(b) or section 707(b), and 


(*3*) The probability of extraction or removal of minerals by any surface mining method is so remote as to be negligible.


(B) If the ownership of the surface estate and mineral interest first became separated after June 12, 1976, no deduction is permitted for a contribution under this section unless surface mining on the property is completely prohibited. 


(iii) *Examples.* The provisions of paragraph (g)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section may be illustrated by the following examples:


(5) *Protection of conservation purpose where taxpayer reserves certain rights*—(i) *Documentation.* In the case of a donation made after February 13, 1986, of any qualified real property interest when the donor reserves rights the exercise of which may impair the conservation interests associated with the property, for a deduction to be allowable under this section the donor must make available to the donee, prior to the time the donation is made, documentation sufficient to establish the condition of the property at the time of the gift. Such documentation is designed to protect the conservation interests associated with the property, which although protected in perpetuity by the easement, could be adversely affected by the exercise of the reserved rights. Such documentation may include:


(A) The appropriate survey maps from the United States Geological Survey, showing the property line and other contiguous or nearby protected areas; 


(B) A map of the area drawn to scale showing all existing man-made improvements or incursions (such as roads, buildings, fences, or gravel pits), vegetation and identification of flora and fauna (including, for example, rare species locations, animal breeding and roosting areas, and migration routes), land use history (including present uses and recent past disturbances), and distinct natural features (such as large trees and aquatic areas);


(C) An aerial photograph of the property at an appropriate scale taken as close as possible to the date the donation is made; and


(D) On-site photographs taken at appropriate locations on the property. If the terms of the donation contain restrictions with regard to a particular natural resource to be protected, such as water quality or air quality, the condition of the resource at or near the time of the gift must be established. The documentation, including the maps and photographs, must be accompanied by a statement signed by the donor and a representative of the donee clearly referencing the documentation and in substance saying “This natural resources inventory is an accurate representation of [the protected property] at the time of the transfer.”.


(ii) *Donee's right to inspection and legal remedies.* In the case of any donation referred to in paragraph (g)(5)(i) of this section, the donor must agree to notify the donee, in writing, before exercising any reserved right, *e.g.* the right to extract certain minerals which may have an adverse impact on the conservation interests associated with the qualified real property interest. The terms of the donation must provide a right of the donee to enter the property at reasonable times for the purpose of inspecting the property to determine if there is compliance with the terms of the donation. Additionally, the terms of the donation must provide a right of the donee to enforce the conservation restrictions by appropriate legal proceedings, including but not limited to, the right to require the restoration of the property to its condition at the time of the donation. 


(6) *Extinguishment.* (i) In general. If a subsequent unexpected change in the conditions surrounding the property that is the subject of a donation under this paragraph can make impossible or impractical the continued use of the property for conservation purposes, the conservation purpose can nonetheless be treated as protected in perpetuity if the restrictions are extinguished by judicial proceeding and all of the donee's proceeds (determined under paragraph (g)(6)(ii) of this section) from a subsequent sale or exchange of the property are used by the donee organization in a manner consistent with the conservation purposes of the original contribution. 


(ii) *Proceeds.* In case of a donation made after February 13, 1986, for a deduction to be allowed under this section, at the time of the gift the donor must agree that the donation of the perpetual conservation restriction gives rise to a property right, immediately vested in the donee organization, with a fair market value that is at least equal to the proportionate value that the perpetual conservation restriction at the time of the gift, bears to the value of the property as a whole at that time. See § 1.170A-14(h)(3)(iii) relating to the allocation of basis. For purposes of this paragraph (g)(6)(ii), that proportionate value of the donee's property rights shall remain constant. Accordingly, when a change in conditions give rise to the extinguishment of a perpetual conservation restriction under paragraph (g)(6)(i) of this section, the donee organization, on a subsequent sale, exchange, or involuntary conversion of the subject property, must be entitled to a portion of the proceeds at least equal to that proportionate value of the perpetual conservation restriction, unless state law provides that the donor is entitled to the full proceeds from the conversion without regard to the terms of the prior perpetual conservation restriction. 


(h) *Valuation*—(1) *Entire interest of donor other than qualified mineral interest.* The value of the contribution under section 170 in the case of a contribution of a taxpayer's entire interest in property other than a qualified mineral interest is the fair market value of the surface rights in the property contributed. The value of the contribution shall be computed without regard to the mineral rights. See paragraph (h)(4), *example (1),* of this section.


(2) *Remainder interest in real property.* In the case of a contribution of any remainder interest in real property, section 170(f)(4) provides that in determining the value of such interest for purposes of section 170, depreciation and depletion of such property shall be taken into account. See § 1.170A-12. In the case of the contribution of a remainder interest for conservation purposes, the current fair market value of the property (against which the limitations of § 1.170A-12 are applied) must take into account any pre-existing or contemporaneously recorded rights limiting, for conservation purposes, the use to which the subject property may be put.


(3) *Perpetual conservation restriction*—(i) *In general.* The value of the contribution under section 170 in the case of a charitable contribution of a perpetual conservation restriction is the fair market value of the perpetual conservation restriction at the time of the contribution. See § 1.170A-7(c). If there is a substantial record of sales of easements comparable to the donated easement (such as purchases pursuant to a governmental program), the fair market value of the donated easement is based on the sales prices of such comparable easements. If no substantial record of market-place sales is available to use as a meaningful or valid comparison, as a general rule (but not necessarily in all cases) the fair market value of a perpetual conservation restriction is equal to the difference between the fair market value of the property it encumbers before the granting of the restriction and the fair market value of the encumbered property after the granting of the restriction. The amount of the deduction in the case of a charitable contribution of a perpetual conservation restriction covering a portion of the contiguous property owned by a donor and the donor's family (as defined in section 267(c)(4)) is the difference between the fair market value of the entire contiguous parcel of property before and after the granting of the restriction. If the granting of a perpetual conservation restriction after January 14, 1986, has the effect of increasing the value of any other property owned by the donor or a related person, the amount of the deduction for the conservation contribution shall be reduced by the amount of the increase in the value of the other property, whether or not such property is contiguous. If, as a result of the donation of a perpetual conservation restriction, the donor or a related person receives, or can reasonably expect to receive, financial or economic benefits that are greater than those that will inure to the general public from the transfer, no deduction is allowable under this section. However, if the donor or a related person receives, or can reasonably expect to receive, a financial or economic benefit that is substantial, but it is clearly shown that the benefit is less than the amount of the transfer, then a deduction under this section is allowable for the excess of the amount transferred over the amount of the financial or economic benefit received or reasonably expected to be received by the donor or the related person. For purposes of this paragraph (h)(3)(i), related person shall have the same meaning as in either section 267(b) or section 707(b). (See *Example 10* of paragraph (h)(4) of this section.)


(ii) *Fair market value of property before and after restriction.* If before and after valuation is used, the fair market value of the property before contribution of the conservation restriction must take into account not only the current use of the property but also an objective assessment of how immediate or remote the likelihood is that the property, absent the restriction, would in fact be developed, as well as any effect from zoning, conservation, or historic preservation laws that already restrict the property's potential highest and best use. Further, there may be instances where the grant of a conservation restriction may have no material effect on the value of the property or may in fact serve to enhance, rather than reduce, the value of property. In such instances no deduction would be allowable. In the case of a conservation restriction that allows for any development, however limited, on the property to be protected, the fair maket value of the property after contribution of the restriction must take into account the effect of the development. In the case of a conservation easement such as an easement on a certified historic structure, the fair market value of the property after contribution of the restriction must take into account the amount of access permitted by the terms of the easement. Additionally, if before and after valuation is used, an appraisal of the property after contribution of the restriction must take into account the effect of restrictions that will result in a reduction of the potential fair market value represented by highest and best use but will, nevertheless, permit uses of the property that will increase its fair market value above that represented by the property's current use. The value of a perpetual conservation restriction shall not be reduced by reason of the existence of restrictions on transfer designed solely to ensure that the conservation restriction will be dedicated to conservation purposes. See § 1.170A-14 (c)(3).


(iii) *Allocation of basis.* In the case of the donation of a qualified real property interest for conservation purposes, the basis of the property retained by the donor must be adjusted by the elimination of that part of the total basis of the property that is properly allocable to the qualified real property interest granted. The amount of the basis that is allocable to the qualified real property interest shall bear the same ratio to the total basis of the property as the fair market value of the qualified real property interest bears to the fair market value of the property before the granting of the qualified real property interest. When a taxpayer donates to a qualifying conservation organization an easement on a structure with respect to which deductions are taken for depreciation, the reduction required by this paragraph (h)(3)(ii) in the basis of the property retained by the taxpayer must be allocated between the structure and the underlying land. 


(4) *Examples.* The provisions of this section may be illustrated by the following examples. In examples illustrating the value or deductibility of donations, the applicable restrictions and limitations of § 1.170A-4, with respect to reduction in amount of charitable contributions of certain appreciated property, and § 1.170A-8, with respect to limitations on charitable deductions by individuals. must also be taken into account.


(i) *Example 1.* A owns Goldacre, a property adjacent to a state park. A wants to donate Goldacre to the state to be used as part of the park, but A wants to reserve a qualified mineral interest in the property, to exploit currently and to devise at death. The fair market value of the surface rights in Goldacre is $200,000 and the fair market value of the mineral rights in $100.000. In order to ensure that the quality of the park will not be degraded, restrictions must be imposed on the right to extract the minerals that reduce the fair market value of the mineral rights to $80,000. Under this section, the value of the contribution is $200,000 (the value of the surface rights).


(ii) *Example 2.* In 1984 B, who is 62, donates a remainder interest in Greenacre to a qualifying organization for conservation purposes, retaining an interest for B's life. Greenacre is a tract of 200 acres of undeveloped woodland that is valued at $200,000 at its highest and best use. Under § 1.170A-12(b), the value of a remainder interest in real property following one life is determined under § 25.2512-5 of this chapter (Gift Tax Regulations). (See § 25.2512-5A of this chapter with respect to the valuation of annuities, interests for life or a term of years, and remainder or reversionary interests transferred before June 1, 2023.) For transfers occurring after November 30, 1983, and before May 1, 1989, the single life remainder factors, valued at 10 percent, can be found in Table A of § 20.2031-7A(d)(6) of this chapter. The remainder factor under these facts is 0.27998. Accordingly, the value of the remainder interest, and thus the amount eligible for an income tax deduction under section 170(f), is $55,996 ($200,000 × 0.27998).




(iii) *Example 3.* Assume the same facts as in paragraph (h)(4)(ii) of this section (*Example 2*) except that Greenacre is B's 200-acre estate with a home built during the colonial period. Some of the acreage around the home is cleared; the balance of Greenacre, except for access roads, is wooded and undeveloped. See section 170(f)(3)(B)(i). However, B would like Greenacre to be maintained in its current state after his death, so he donates a remainder interest in Greenacre to a qualifying organization for conservation purposes pursuant to section 170 (f)(3)(B)(iii) and (h)(2)(B). At the time of the gift the land has a value of $200,000 and the house has a value of $100,000. The value of the remainder interest, and thus the amount eligible for an income tax deduction under section 170(f), is computed pursuant to § 1.170A-12. See § 1.170A-12(b)(3).


(iv) *Example 4.* Assume the same facts as in paragraph (h)(4)(ii) of this section (*Example 2*) except that at age 62 instead of donating a remainder interest B donates an easement in Greenacre to a qualifying organization for conservation purposes. The fair market value of Greenacre after the donation is reduced to $110,000. Accordingly, the value of the easement, and thus the amount eligible for a deduction under section 170(f), is $90,000 ($200,000 less $110,000).


(v) *Example 5.* Assume the same facts as in paragraph (h)(4)(iv) of this section (*Example 4*) and assume that three years later, at age 65, B decides to donate a remainder interest in Greenacre to a qualifying organization for conservation purposes. Increasing real estate values in the area have raised the fair market value of Greenacre (subject to the easement) to $130,000. Accordingly, the value of the remainder interest, and thus the amount eligible for a deduction under section 170(f), is $41,639 ($130,000 × .32030).


(vi) *Example 6.* Assume the same facts as in paragraph (h)(2)(ii) of this section (*Example 2*) except that at the time of the donation of a remainder interest in Greenacre, B also donates an easement to a different qualifying organization for conservation purposes. Based on all the facts and circumstances, the value of the easement is determined to be $100,000. Therefore, the value of the property after the easement is $100,000 and the value of the remainder interest, and thus the amount eligible for deduction under section 170(f), is $27,998 ($100,000 × .27998).


(vii) *Example 7.* C owns Greenacre, a 200-acre estate containing a house built during the colonial period. At its highest and best use, for home development, the fair market value of Greenacre is $300,000. C donates an easement (to maintain the house and Green acre in their current state) to a qualifying organization for conservation purposes. The fair market value of Greenacre after the donation is reduced to $125,000. Accordingly, the value of the easement and the amount eligible for a deduction under section 170(f) is $175.000 ($300,000 less $125,000).


(viii) *Example 8.* Assume the same facts as in paragraph (h)(4)(vii) of this section (*Example 7*) and assume that three years later, C decides to donate a remainder interest in Greenacre to a qualifying organization for conservation purposes. Increasing real estate values in the area have raised the fair market value of Greenacre to $180.000. Assume that because of the perpetual easement prohibiting any development of the land, the value of the house is $120,000 and the value of the land is $60,000. The value of the remainder interest, and thus the amount eligible for an income tax deduction under section 170(f), is computed pursuant to § 1.170A-12. See § 1.170A-12(b)(3).


(ix) *Example 9.* D owns property with a basis of $20,000 and a fair market value of $80,000. D donates to a qualifying organization an easement for conservation purposes that is determined under this section to have a fair market value of $60,000. The amount of basis allocable to the easement is $15,000 ($60,000/$80,000 = $15,000/$20,000). Accordingly, the basis of the property is reduced to $5,000 ($20,000 minus $15,000)


(x) *Example 10.* E owns 10 one-acre lots that are currently woods and parkland. The fair market value of each of E's lots is $15,000 and the basis of each lot is $3,000. E grants to the county a perpetual easement for conservation purposes to use and maintain eight of the acres as a public park and to restrict any future development on those eight acres. As a result of the restrictions, the value of the eight acres is reduced to $1,000 an acre. However, by perpetually restricting development on this portion of the land, E has ensured that the two remaining acres will always be bordered by parkland, thus increasing their fair market value to $22,500 each. If the eight acres represented all of E's land, the fair market value of the easement would be $112,000, an amount equal to the fair market value of the land before the granting of the easement (8 × $15,000 = $120,000) minus the fair market value of the encumbered land after the granting of the easement (8 × $1,000 = $8,000). However, because the easement only covered a portion of the taxpayer's contiguous land, the amount of the deduction under section 170 is reduced to $97,000 ($150,000-$53,000), that is, the difference between the fair market value of the entire tract of land before ($150,000) and after ((8 × $1,000) + (2 × $22,500)) the granting of the easement.


(xi) *Example 11.* Assume the same facts as in paragraph (h)(4)(x) of this section (*Example 10*) Since the easement covers a portion of E's land, only the basis of that portion is adjusted. Therefore, the amount of basis allocable to the easement is $22,400 ((8 × $3,000) × ($112,000/$120,000)). Accordingly, the basis of the eight acres encumbered by the easement is reduced to $1,600 ($24,000-$22,400), or $200 for each acre. The basis of the two remaining acres is not affected by the donation.


(xii) *Example 12.* F owns and uses as professional offices a two-story building that lies within a registered historic district. F's building is an outstanding example of period architecture with a fair market value of $125,000. Restricted to its current use, which is the highest and best use of the property without making changes to the facade, the building and lot would have a fair market value of $100,000, of which $80,000 would be allocable to the building and $20,000 woud be allocable to the lot. F's basis in the property is $50,000, of which $40,000 is allocable to the building and $10,000 is allocable to the lot. F's neighborhood is a mix of residential and commercial uses, and it is possible that F (or another owner) could enlarge the building for more extensive commercial use, which is its highest and best use. However, this would require changes to the facade. F would like to donate to a qualifying preservation organization an easement restricting any changes to the facade and promising to maintain the facade in perpetuity. The donation would qualify for a deduction under this section. The fair market value of the easement is $25,000 (the fair market value of the property before the easement, $125,000, minus the fair market value of the property after the easement, $100,000). Pursuant to § 1.170A-14(h)(3)(iii), the basis allocable to the easement is $10,000 and the basis of the underlying property (building and lot) is reduced to $40,000.


(i) *Substantiation requirement.* If a taxpayer makes a qualified conservation contribution and claims a deduction, the taxpayer must maintain written records of the fair market value of the underlying property before and after the donation and the conservation purpose furthered by the donation, and such information shall be stated in the taxpayer's income tax return if required by the return or its instructions. See also § 1.170A-13(c) (relating to substantiation requirements for deductions in excess of $5,000 for charitable contributions made on or before July 30, 2018); § 1.170A-16(d) (relating to substantiation of charitable contributions of more than $5,000 made after July 30, 2018); § 1.170A-17 (relating to the definitions of qualified appraisal and qualified appraiser for substantiation of contributions made on or after January 1, 2019); and section 6662 (relating to the imposition of an accuracy-related penalty on underpayments). Taxpayers may rely on the rules in § 1.170A-16(d) for contributions made after June 3, 2004, or appraisals prepared for returns or submissions filed after August 17, 2006. Taxpayers may rely on the rules in § 1.170A-17 for appraisals prepared for returns or submissions filed after August 17, 2006.






(j) *Disallowance of certain deductions for contributions by partnerships and S corporations that exceed 2.5 times the sum of the relevant bases*—(1) *In general.* This paragraph (j) applies the rules of section 170(h)(7), which disallow a deduction for certain qualified conservation contributions, as defined in section 170(h)(1) and this section, made by, or allocated to, partnerships or S corporations (as defined in section 1361(a)(1) of the Code) if the amount of the qualified conservation contribution exceeds 2.5 times the sum of the relevant bases as determined by this paragraph (j) and paragraphs (k) through (m) of this section (Disallowance Rule). The Disallowance Rule does not apply to qualified conservation contributions made directly by landowners that are not pass-through entities, such as individuals or C corporations. *See* paragraph (n) of this section for certain exceptions. *See* paragraph (j)(3) of this section for definitions of terms used in this paragraph (j) and paragraphs (k) through (n) of this section.


(2) *Application*—(i) *Contributing partnerships and contributing S corporations.* Except as provided in paragraph (n) of this section, a qualified conservation contribution by a contributing partnership or a contributing S corporation is a disallowed qualified conservation contribution if the amount of the qualified conservation contribution exceeds 2.5 times the sum of each of the contributing partnership's or contributing S corporation's ultimate member's relevant basis as determined under this paragraph (j) and paragraphs (k) through (m) of this section.


(ii) *Upper-tier partnerships and upper-tier S corporations.* Except as provided in paragraph (n) of this section, an allocated portion received by an upper-tier partnership or upper-tier S corporation is a disallowed qualified conservation contribution if either the contribution is a disallowed qualified conservation contribution with respect to the partnership that allocated the allocated portion to the upper-tier partnership or upper-tier S corporation, or such allocated portion exceeds 2.5 times the sum of each of that upper-tier partnership's or upper-tier S corporation's ultimate member's relevant basis as determined under this paragraph (j) and paragraphs (k) through (m) of this section.


(iii) *Partner or S corporation shareholder claiming an inconsistent amount.* If a partner or S corporation shareholder claims an amount of qualified conservation contribution that is inconsistent with and greater than the partner's distributive share or S corporation shareholder's pro rata share of qualified conservation contribution reported to the partner or S corporation shareholder by the partnership or S corporation, predicated on a position that the partnership's or S corporation's qualified conservation contribution was a greater amount than the amount claimed by the partnership or S corporation, and the qualified conservation contribution would have been a disallowed qualified conservation contribution if the partnership or S corporation had actually claimed that greater amount, then the partner's or S corporation shareholder's claimed qualified conservation contribution is a disallowed qualified conservation contribution.


(3) *Definitions.* The following definitions apply for purposes of this paragraph (j) and paragraphs (k) through (n) of this section:


(i) *Allocated portion.* In the case of an upper-tier partnership or upper-tier S corporation that receives, directly or indirectly, a distributive share of a qualified conservation contribution, the phrase *allocated portion* means the amount of such distributive share.


(ii) *Amount of qualified conservation contribution.* The amount of a contributing partnership's or contributing S corporation's qualified conservation contribution is the amount claimed as a qualified conservation contribution on the return of the contributing partnership or contributing S corporation for the taxable year in which the contribution is made. If the contributing partnership or contributing S corporation files an amended return or administrative adjustment request under section 6227 of the Code claiming a higher amount with respect to the qualified conservation contribution, the rules of this section must be re-applied with respect to such higher amount to determine the application of section 170(h)(7) and this section; for example, if a contributing S corporation's original return claims a qualified conservation contribution that does not exceed 2.5 times the sum of the relevant bases, and the S corporation subsequently files an amended return claiming a higher amount with respect to the qualified conservation contribution that does exceed 2.5 times the sum of the relevant bases, then the entire amount of the qualified conservation contribution is a disallowed qualified conservation contribution (unless one of the exceptions in paragraph (n) of this section applies). If the contributing partnership or contributing S corporation files an amended return or timely administrative adjustment request under section 6227 claiming a lower amount with respect to the qualified conservation contribution, the rules of this section will be re-applied with respect to such lower amount to determine the application of section 170(h)(7) and this section if and only if the amended return or timely administrative adjustment request is filed before the contributing partnership or contributing S corporation is put on notice of an IRS examination with respect to the qualified conservation contribution. A contributing partnership or contributing S corporation is considered to be on notice after the earlier of—


(A) The date the contributing partnership or contributing S corporation is first contacted by the Internal Revenue Service in connection with any examination of a return that relates to the qualified conservation contribution; or


(B) The date any person is first contacted by the Internal Revenue Service concerning an examination of that person under section 6700 (relating to the penalty for promoting abusive tax shelters) for an activity that relates to the qualified conservation contribution.


(iii) *Contributing partnership.* The term *contributing partnership* means a partnership that makes a qualified conservation contribution.


(iv) *Contributing S corporation.* The term *contributing S corporation* means an S corporation that makes a qualified conservation contribution.


(v) *Direct interest.* The term *direct interest* refers to an ownership interest in a contributing partnership, upper-tier partnership, contributing S corporation, or upper-tier S corporation that is held directly, or through an entity disregarded as separate from its owner for Federal income tax purposes, a qualified subchapter S subsidiary as defined in section 1361(b)(3), or through a grantor trust (under subpart E of part 1 of subchapter J of chapter 1 of the Code). In the case of a partner that is a C corporation (as defined in section 1361(a)(2)), non-grantor trust, or an estate, or an S corporation shareholder that is a non-grantor trust or an estate, the *direct interest* in the partnership or S corporation, as applicable, is held by the C corporation, non-grantor trust, or estate; the C corporation's shareholders, trust beneficiaries, and estate beneficiaries are not considered to hold any interest in the partnership or S corporation, as applicable, for purposes of this paragraph (j) and paragraphs (k) through (n) of this section.


(vi) *Directly.* An ownership interest is held *directly* if it is not held through one or more upper-tier partnerships or upper-tier S corporations. A distributive share or pro rata share of a qualified conservation contribution is received *directly* if it does not pass through one or more upper-tier partnerships or upper-tier S corporations.


(vii) *Disallowed qualified conservation contribution.* The term *disallowed qualified conservation contribution* means a qualified conservation contribution or allocated portion for which no deduction is allowed pursuant to section 170(h)(7) and this paragraph (j).


(viii) *Indirect interest.* The term *indirect interest* refers to an ownership interest in a contributing partnership, contributing S corporation, upper-tier partnership, or upper-tier S corporation held through an upper-tier S corporation or one or more upper-tier partnerships.


(ix) *Indirectly.* An ownership interest is held *indirectly* if it is held through one or more upper-tier partnerships or upper-tier S corporations. A distributive share or pro rata share of a qualified conservation contribution is received *indirectly* if it passes through one or more upper-tier partnerships or upper-tier S corporations.


(x) *Ultimate member.* The term *ultimate member* means, with respect to any partnership or S corporation, any partner (that is not itself a partnership or S corporation) or S corporation shareholder that receives a distributive share or pro rata share, directly or indirectly, of a qualified conservation contribution. Thus, ultimate members will either be partners holding a direct interest in a partnership, which may be the contributing partnership or an upper-tier partnership, or shareholders holding a direct interest in an S corporation, which may be the contributing S corporation or an upper-tier S corporation. Upper-tier S corporations and upper-tier partnerships themselves are not considered ultimate members.


(xi) *Upper-tier partnership.* The term *upper-tier partnership* means a partnership that receives an allocated portion.


(xii) *Upper-tier S corporation.* The term *upper-tier S corporation* means an S corporation that receives an allocated portion.


(4) *Effect of Disallowance Rule*—(i) *If the Disallowance Rule applies to a contributing partnership or contributing S corporation.* If a contributing partnership's or contributing S corporation's qualified conservation contribution is a disallowed qualified conservation contribution under this paragraph (j), then:


(A) Any upper-tier partnership's or upper-tier S corporation's allocated portion of such contribution is a disallowed qualified conservation contribution, regardless of whether such allocated portion exceeds 2.5 times the sum of each of the upper-tier partnership's or upper-tier S corporation's ultimate member's relevant basis; and


(B) No person (whether holding a direct or indirect interest in such contributing partnership or contributing S corporation) may claim a deduction under any provision of the Code with respect to any amount of such disallowed qualified conservation contribution, regardless of whether that person's distributive share or pro rata share of the disallowed qualified conservation contribution exceeds 2.5 times its relevant basis.


(ii) *If the Disallowance Rule does not apply to a contributing partnership or contributing S corporation.* If a contributing partnership's or contributing S corporation's qualified conservation contribution is not a disallowed qualified conservation contribution under this paragraph (j), then:


(A) The distributive share or pro rata share of any ultimate member holding a direct interest in the contributing partnership or contributing S corporation is not a disallowed qualified conservation contribution; and


(B) Any upper-tier partnership or upper-tier S corporation that receives an allocated portion of such qualified conservation contribution must separately apply the rules of section 170(h)(7) and this paragraph (j) and paragraphs (k) through (m) of this section to determine whether that upper-tier partnership's or upper-tier S corporation's allocated portion is a disallowed qualified conservation contribution.


(iii) *If the Disallowance Rule applies to an upper-tier partnership or an upper-tier S corporation.* If an upper-tier partnership's or upper-tier S corporation's allocated portion is a disallowed qualified conservation contribution under this paragraph (j), then:


(A) Any subsequent upper-tier partnership's or upper-tier S corporation's allocated portion of such allocated portion is a disallowed qualified conservation contribution, regardless of whether the subsequent upper-tier partnership's or upper-tier S corporation's allocated portion exceeds 2.5 times the sum of each of the subsequent upper-tier partnership's or upper-tier S corporation's ultimate member's relevant basis; and


(B) No person holding a direct or indirect interest in that upper-tier partnership or upper-tier S corporation may claim a deduction under any provision of the Code with respect to any amount of that upper-tier partnership's or upper-tier S corporation's allocated portion, regardless of whether that person's distributive share or pro rata share of the allocated portion exceeds 2.5 times its relevant basis. However, this does not affect the application of this paragraph (j) and paragraphs (k) through (m) of this section to another partner of the contributing partnership; for example, if the qualified conservation contribution is not a disallowed qualified conservation contribution with respect to the contributing partnership, then the distributive share of such contribution of an ultimate member holding a direct interest in the contributing partnership is not a disallowed qualified conservation contribution, notwithstanding that the qualified conservation contribution is a disallowed qualified conservation contribution with respect to one or more upper-tier partnerships or upper-tier S corporations.


(iv) *If the Disallowance Rule does not apply to an upper-tier partnership or upper-tier S corporation.* If an upper-tier partnership's or upper-tier S corporation's allocated portion is not a disallowed qualified conservation contribution under this paragraph (j), then:


(A) The distributive share or pro rata share of such allocated portion of any ultimate member holding a direct interest in the upper-tier partnership or upper-tier S corporation is not a disallowed qualified conservation contribution; and


(B) Any subsequent upper-tier partnership or upper-tier S corporation that receives an allocated portion of such allocated portion must separately apply the rules of section 170(h)(7) and this paragraph (j) and paragraphs (k) through (m) of this section to determine whether that subsequent upper-tier partnership's or upper-tier S corporation's allocated portion is treated as a disallowed qualified conservation contribution.


(5) *No inference.* There is no presumption that a qualified conservation contribution that is not a disallowed qualified conservation contribution as defined in paragraph (j)(3)(vii) of this section is compliant with section 170, any other section of the Code, the regulations, or any other guidance. Compliance with section 170(h)(7) and this paragraph (j) and paragraphs (k) through (n) of this section is not a safe harbor for purposes of any other provision of law or with respect to the value of the contribution. Such transactions are subject to adjustment or disallowance for any other reason, including failure to satisfy the other requirements of section 170 or overvaluation of the contribution. In addition, taxpayers who engage in such transactions may be required to disclose under § 1.6011-4 the transactions as listed transactions.


(6) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the rules of this paragraph (j). For these three examples in this paragraph (j)(6), assume that the partnership allocations comply with the rules of subchapter K of chapter 1 of the Code, and that the exceptions in paragraph (n) of this section do not apply.


(i) *Example 1: Disallowed qualified conservation contribution*—(A) *Facts.* A, an individual, and B, a C corporation, form AB Partnership, a partnership for Federal income tax purposes. AB Partnership acquires real property. Two years later, AB Partnership makes a qualified conservation contribution with respect to the property and claims a contribution of $100X on its return. AB Partnership allocates the contribution equally to A and B. A's relevant basis is $30X, and B's relevant basis is $8X.


(B) *Analysis.* A and B are the ultimate members of AB Partnership because they each receive a distributive share of the qualified conservation contribution and are not partnerships or S corporations. The claimed amount of AB Partnership's qualified conservation contribution is $100X, which exceeds 2.5 times the sum of A's and B's relevant bases, which is $95X ($95X = 2.5 × (A's $30X relevant basis + B's $8X relevant basis)). Therefore, AB Partnership's contribution is a disallowed qualified conservation contribution. No person may claim any deduction with respect to this contribution, even though A's $50X distributive share of the contribution does not exceed 2.5 times A's $30X relevant basis.


(ii) *Example 2: Not a disallowed qualified conservation contribution*—(A) *Facts.* Individuals C and D form CD Partnership, a partnership for Federal income tax purposes. CD Partnership acquires real property. Two years later, CD Partnership makes a qualified conservation contribution with respect to the property and claims a contribution of $100X on its return. CD Partnership allocates the contribution $5X to C and $95X to D. C's relevant basis is $6X, and D's relevant basis is $34X.


(B) *Analysis.* C and D are the ultimate members of CD Partnership because they each receive a distributive share of the qualified conservation contribution and are not partnerships or S corporations. The claimed amount of CD Partnership's qualified conservation contribution is $100X, which does not exceed 2.5 times the sum of C's and D's relevant bases, which is also $100X ($100X = 2.5 × (C's $6X relevant basis + D's $34X relevant basis)). Therefore, CD Partnership's contribution is not a disallowed qualified conservation contribution (that is, not disallowed by section 170(h)(7) and this paragraph (j)) with respect to CD Partnership, C, or D, even though D's $95X distributive share of the contribution exceeds 2.5 times D's $34X relevant basis.


(iii) *Example 3: Tiered partnerships*—(A) *Facts.* Individuals E and F form UTP Partnership, a partnership for Federal income tax purposes. UTP Partnership and G, a C corporation, form LTP Partnership, a partnership for Federal income tax purposes. LTP Partnership acquires real property. Two years later, LTP Partnership makes a qualified conservation contribution with respect to the property and claims a contribution of $100X on its return. LTP Partnership allocates the contribution $5X to G and $95X to UTP Partnership. UTP Partnership allocates its $95X portion of the contribution $45X to E and $50X to F. G's relevant basis is $10X, E's relevant basis is $11X, and F's relevant basis is $21X.


(B) *Analysis for LTP Partnership.* The ultimate members of LTP Partnership are G, E, and F because they each receive a distributive share of the qualified conservation contribution and are not a partnership or S corporation. Because UTP Partnership is a partnership, it is not an ultimate member of LTP Partnership, even though it receives a distributive share of the qualified conservation contribution. The amount of LTP Partnership's qualified conservation contribution is $100X, which does not exceed 2.5 times the sum of each of the ultimate member's relevant basis, which is $105X ($105X = 2.5 × (G's $10X relevant basis + E's $11X relevant basis + F's $21X relevant basis)). Therefore, LTP Partnership's contribution is not a disallowed qualified conservation contribution (that is, is not disallowed by section 170(h)(7) and this paragraph (j)) with respect to LTP Partnership and G.


(C) *Analysis for UTP Partnership.* Because UTP Partnership receives an allocated portion, UTP Partnership must apply this paragraph (j) and paragraphs (k) through (m) of this section to determine whether its allocated portion is a disallowed qualified conservation contribution. The ultimate members of UTP Partnership are E and F because they each receive a distributive share of UTP Partnership's allocated portion and are not partnerships or S corporations. The amount of UTP Partnership's allocated portion of LTP Partnership's qualified conservation contribution is $95X, which exceeds 2.5 times the sum of E's and F's relevant bases, which is $80X ($80X = 2.5 × (E's $11X relevant basis + F's $21X relevant basis)). Therefore, UTP Partnership's allocated portion of LTP Partnership's contribution is a disallowed qualified conservation contribution with respect to UTP Partnership, E, and F. No partner of UTP Partnership may claim any deduction with respect to this contribution, even though F's $50X distributive share of the contribution does not exceed 2.5 times F's $21X relevant basis. This does not affect the determination that G's distributive share of the contribution is not a disallowed qualified conservation contribution.








(k) *Determination of relevant basis.* For purposes of this section, the term *relevant basis* means, with respect to any ultimate member, the portion of such ultimate member's modified basis (as determined under paragraph (l) of this section) that is allocable (under the rules of paragraph (m) of this section) to the portion of the real property with respect to which the qualified conservation contribution is made.




(l) *Determination of modified basis*—(1) *In general.* In the case of an ultimate member holding a direct interest in a partnership, the ultimate member's modified basis is determined by such partnership immediately before the qualified conservation contribution is made in the manner described in paragraph (l)(2) of this section. In the case of an ultimate member holding a direct interest in an S corporation, the ultimate member's modified basis is determined by such S corporation in the manner described in paragraph (l)(3) of this section.


(2) *Partners in partnerships*—(i) *Computation.* For purposes of this section, the term *modified basis* means, with respect to any ultimate member that is a direct partner in either a contributing partnership or an upper-tier partnership, such ultimate member's adjusted basis in its interest in the partnership in which the ultimate member holds a direct interest as of the beginning of the first day of the partnership's taxable year in which the qualified conservation contribution is made, with adjustments as determined under paragraphs (l)(2)(ii) through (vi) of this section. However, if the ultimate member was not a partner as of the beginning of the first day of the partnership's taxable year in which the qualified conservation contribution is made, then the term *modified basis* means such ultimate member's adjusted basis in its interest in the partnership immediately after the transaction that resulted in the ultimate member becoming a partner, with adjustments as determined under paragraphs (l)(2)(ii) through (vi) of this section. The adjustments under paragraphs (l)(2)(ii) through (vi) must be made in the order in which they are listed.


(ii) *Step 1.* First, the computation of modified basis must start with the ultimate member's adjusted basis under paragraph (l)(2)(i) of this section and then reflect an increase for any contributions made by the ultimate member to the partnership during the portion of the year commencing with the beginning of the taxable year of the partnership and ending immediately prior to the time of day at which the qualified conservation contribution is made as provided in section 722 of the Code.


(iii) *Step 2.* Second, if between the beginning of the partnership's taxable year and the time of day at which the qualified conservation contribution is made, the ultimate member acquired additional interests in the partnership, the amount determined under paragraph (l)(2)(ii) of this section must be increased by the ultimate member's initial basis in those additional interests. If, between the beginning of the partnership's taxable year and the time of day at which the qualified conservation contribution is made, the ultimate member partially disposed of its interest in the partnership, the amount determined under paragraph (l)(2)(ii) of this section must be decreased by the ultimate member's basis in the interests disposed of.


(iv) *Step 3.* Third, the amount determined under paragraph (l)(2)(iii) of this section must be adjusted, as provided in section 705 of the Code, by the ultimate member's hypothetical distributive share of partnership items attributable to the portion of the year commencing with the beginning of the taxable year of the partnership and ending immediately prior to the time of day at which the qualified conservation contribution is made. In making this determination, the partnership must apply the rules of § 1.706-4 and apply a hypothetical interim closing method to allocate the partnership's items attributable to the portion of the year commencing with the beginning of the taxable year of the partnership and ending immediately prior to the time of day at which the qualified conservation contribution is made. The partnership cannot apply any convention in § 1.706-4(c) to the hypothetical determination of the partners' distributive shares, but rather must perform the calculation as though the determination occurred immediately prior to the time of day at which the qualified conservation contribution is made. This hypothetical determination of the partners' distributive shares is only for purposes of calculating modified basis. This paragraph (l) does not require the partnership to use the interim closing method with respect to the determination of its partners' actual distributive shares of partnership items of income, gain, loss, deduction, and credit for the taxable year in which the qualified conservation contribution is made or otherwise. *See* § 1.706-4 for applicable rules for the determination of a partner's distributive share when a partner's interest varies during a partnership taxable year.


(v) *Step 4.* Fourth, the amount determined under paragraph (l)(2)(iv) of this section must be reduced (but not below zero) by any distributions made by the partnership to the ultimate member during the portion of the year commencing with the beginning of the taxable year of the partnership and ending immediately prior to the time of day at which the qualified conservation contribution is made as provided in section 733 of the Code.


(vi) *Step 5.* Fifth, the amount determined under paragraph (l)(2)(v) of this section must be reduced by the full amount of the ultimate member's share of § 1.752-1 liabilities of any partnership (including a lower-tier partnership). The remaining amount is such ultimate member's modified basis. Thus, an ultimate member's modified basis may be less than zero.


(3) *S corporation shareholder*—(i) *Computation.* For purposes of this section, the term *modified basis* means, with respect to any ultimate member that is a shareholder of either a contributing S corporation or an upper-tier S corporation, such ultimate member's adjusted basis in its shares in the S corporation as of the end of the S corporation's taxable year in which the qualified conservation contribution is made, with adjustments as determined under paragraphs (l)(3)(ii) and (iii) of this section. However, if the ultimate member was not a shareholder at the end of the S corporation's taxable year in which the qualified conservation contribution is made, then the term *modified basis* means such ultimate member's adjusted basis in its shares in the S corporation immediately prior to the transaction that terminated its interest in the S corporation, with adjustments as determined under paragraphs (l)(3)(ii) and (iii) of this section. Modified basis does not include the ultimate member's adjusted basis in any indebtedness of the S corporation to the ultimate member. The adjustments under paragraphs (l)(3)(ii) and (iii) of this section must be made in the order in which they are listed.


(ii) *Step 1.* First, the computation of modified basis must start with the ultimate member's adjusted basis under paragraph (l)(3)(i) of this section, and then reflect an increase for the extent to which the ultimate member's adjusted basis reflects a reduction as a result of the qualified conservation contribution. Thus, the ultimate member's modified basis with respect to a qualified conservation contribution does not reflect any reduction for the ultimate member's pro rata share of the S corporation's basis in the conservation easement or other property contributed in the qualified conservation contribution.


(iii) *Step 2.* Second, the amount determined under paragraph (l)(3)(ii) of this section must be multiplied by the number of days during the S corporation's taxable year in which the ultimate member was a shareholder and divided by the total number of days during the S corporation's taxable year. The resulting amount is such ultimate member's modified basis.


(4) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the provisions of this paragraph (l). For the four examples in this paragraph (l)(4), assume that the partnership allocations comply with the rules of subchapter K of chapter 1 of the Code and the exceptions in paragraph (n) of this section do not apply.


(i) *Example 1*—(A) *Facts.* AB Partnership is a calendar-year partnership for Federal income tax purposes whose partners are A and B, each of whom is an individual and has a 50 percent interest in income, gain, loss, and deduction. Several years ago, B contributed property to AB Partnership subject to a § 1.752-1 liability. At the beginning of AB Partnership's 2024 taxable year (the beginning of the day on January 1, 2024), A's adjusted basis in its interest in AB Partnership is $19X, and B's adjusted basis in its interest in AB Partnership is $17X. At 10:01 a.m. on August 29, 2024, AB Partnership makes a qualified conservation contribution. On August 29, 2024, the amount of the § 1.752-1 liability is $10X and is allocated under the rules of section 752 to A. During 2024, there were no variations in any partner's interests in AB Partnership within the meaning of section 706. During 2024, AB Partnership earned $8X of ordinary income and sustained ($4X) of capital loss in the ordinary course of its business, both of which are allocated equally to A and B. Within 2024, AB Partnership earned $6X of ordinary income, and sustained ($4X) of capital loss between the beginning of the day on January 1, 2024, and 10:00 a.m. on August 29, 2024, and AB Partnership earned $2X of ordinary income, and sustained $0X of capital loss between 10:01 a.m. on August 29, 2024, and the end of the day on December 31, 2024. Other than the qualified conservation contribution, none of AB Partnership's items are extraordinary items within the meaning of § 1.706-4(e)(2). In April 2024, AB Partnership distributed $1X cash to A. In November 2024, B contributed $2X cash to AB Partnership.


(B) *Analysis.* The ultimate members of AB Partnership are A and B because they each receive a distributive share of the qualified conservation contribution and are not partnerships or S corporations. To determine A's and B's modified bases, AB Partnership must start with A's and B's adjusted bases in AB Partnership as of the beginning of the first day of the taxable year of AB Partnership and then make the adjustments required under paragraphs (l)(2)(ii) through (vi) of this section. Accordingly, the computation of A's beginning modified basis begins with $19X, and the computation of B's modified basis begins with $17X. First, those amounts must be increased by any contributions between the beginning of the day on January 1, 2024, and 10 a.m. on August 29, 2024. Because there were none, after this step, the computation of A's modified basis remains at $19X and the computation of B's modified basis remains at $17X. Next, these amounts must be adjusted for any additional acquisitions of partnership interests by an existing partner or partial dispositions of partnership interests by a continuing partner between the beginning of the partnership's taxable year and the time of day at which the qualified conservation contribution is made. Because there were none, after this step, the computation of A's modified basis remains at $19X and the computation of B's modified basis remains at $17X. Then these amounts must be adjusted as provided in section 705 by A's and B's hypothetical distributive shares of AB Partnership's items attributable to the portion of the year between the beginning of the day on January 1, 2024, and 10:00 a.m. on August 29, 2024. Thus, the computations of A's and B's modified bases will each reflect an increase for their hypothetical $3X distributive share of the $6X ordinary income that AB Partnership earned between the beginning of the day on January 1, 2024, and 10:00 a.m. on August 29, 2024, and a decrease for their hypothetical ($2X) distributive share of the ($4X) capital loss that AB Partnership incurred between the beginning of the day on January 1, 2024, and 10:00 a.m. on August 29, 2024. Therefore, after this step, the computation of A's modified basis reflects an increase from $19X to $20X, and the computation of B's modified basis reflects an increase from $17X to $18X. Next, these amounts must be reduced by any distributions between the beginning of the day on January 1, 2024, and 10:00 a.m. on August 29, 2024. Thus, the computation of A's modified basis reflects a reduction from $20X to $19X. B did not receive any distribution, so the computation of B's modified basis remains at $18X. Finally, the full amount of A's and B's shares of § 1.752-1 liabilities must be subtracted. Thus, the computation of A's modified basis reflects a reduction from $19X to $9X, which is A's modified basis. B's modified basis is $18X.


(ii) *Example 2*—(A) *Facts.* CD Partnership, a partnership for Federal income tax purposes, is a calendar-year partnership using the calendar day convention under § 1.706-4 whose partners on January 1, 2024, are C and D, each of whom is an individual and has a 50 percent interest in income, gain, loss, and deduction. On March 15, 2024, C sells its interest to E, a C corporation. At 1:15 p.m. on September 15, 2024, CD Partnership makes a qualified conservation contribution. On September 21, 2024, D sells its interest to F, an individual. During 2024, CD Partnership earned $8X of ordinary income and sustained ($14X) of ordinary loss. Within 2024, CD Partnership earned all $8X of ordinary income in November and December, and sustained all ($14X) of ordinary loss in April through August. In May 2024, D contributed $6X cash to CD Partnership, and E contributed property with a fair market value of $6X and basis of $3X. D and E are equal partners during the period in which they are both partners. CD Partnership made no distributions during 2024. CD Partnership had no § 1.752-1 liabilities during 2024. In accordance with § 1.706-4(e)(2)(xiii), CD Partnership treats its qualified conservation contribution as an extraordinary item allocable only to D and E, its partners at 1:15 p.m. on September 15, 2024. Other than the qualified conservation contribution, none of AB Partnership's items are extraordinary items within the meaning of § 1.706-4(e)(2). CD Partnership uses the proration method under § 1.706-4 to allocate its items among C, D, E, and F. Under the proration method, CD Partnership allocates each C, D, E, and F a distributive share of a portion of both the $8X ordinary income and the ($14X) ordinary loss. D's adjusted basis in its interest in CD Partnership at the beginning of CD Partnership's 2024 taxable year (the beginning of the day on January 1, 2024) is $8X. E's adjusted basis in its interest in CD Partnership immediately after E acquires C's interest in CD Partnership is $6X.


(B) *Analysis.* The ultimate members of CD Partnership are D and E because they each receive a distributive share of the qualified conservation contribution and are not partnerships or S corporations. To determine D's and E's modified bases, CD Partnership must start with D's and E's adjusted bases in CD Partnership as of the beginning of the day on January 1, 2024, and then make the adjustments required under paragraphs (l)(2)(ii) through (vi) of this section. However, because E was not a partner as of the beginning of the day on January 1, 2024, CD Partnership must start with E's adjusted basis immediately after E's purchase of C's interest in CD Partnership. Accordingly, the computation of D's modified basis begins with $8X, and the computation of E's modified basis begins with $6X. Then, these amounts must be increased by any contributions made by D or E, respectively, to CD Partnership between the beginning of the day on January 1, 2024, and 1:14 p.m. on September 15, 2024. Therefore, the computation of D's modified basis reflects an increase from $8X to $14X (for D's $6X contribution of cash to CD Partnership in May 2024), and the computation of E's modified basis reflects an increase from $6X to $9X (for E's contribution of property to CD Partnership with a basis of $3X in May 2024). Next, these amounts must be adjusted for any additional acquisitions of partnership interests by an existing partner or partial dispositions of partnership interests by a continuing partner between the beginning of the partnership's taxable year and the time of day at which the qualified conservation contribution is made. Because there were none, after this step, the computation of D's modified basis remains at $14X and the computation of E's modified basis remains at $9X. Next, these amounts must be adjusted as provided in section 705 by D's and E's hypothetical distributive shares of CD Partnership's items attributable to the portion of the year between the beginning of the day on January 1, 2024, and 1:14 p.m. on September 15, 2024. CD Partnership must perform the analysis using an interim closing method to a hypothetical variation at 1:14 p.m. on September 15, 2024, immediately prior to the qualified conservation contribution. The computation of D's modified basis will reflect an adjustment for its hypothetical distributive share of all CD Partnership's items incurred from the beginning of the day on January 1, 2024, through 1:14 p.m. on September 15, 2024. The computation of E's modified basis will reflect an adjustment for its hypothetical distributive share of all CD Partnership's items incurred from the end of the day on March 15, 2024, through 1:14 p.m. on September 15, 2024. For purposes of this paragraph (l)(4)(ii)(B) (*Example 2*), it does not matter that CD Partnership actually used the proration method to allocate its 2024 income. Instead, under this hypothetical calculation of the distributive shares, the computation of D's and E's modified bases will each reflect a reduction for their 50 percent share of the ($14X) ordinary loss. Because none of CD Partnership's $8X of ordinary income was earned between the beginning of the day on January 1, 2024, and 1:14 p.m. on September 15, 2024, neither D's nor E's modified basis will reflect an increase for any amount of that income. Thus, after this step, the computation of D's modified basis reflects a reduction from $14X to $7X, and the computation of E's modified basis reflects a reduction from $9X to $2X. Then, these amounts must be reduced by any distributions between the beginning of the day on January 1, 2024, and 1:14 p.m. on September 15, 2024. Because there were none, after this step, the computation of D's modified basis remains at $7X, and the computation of E's modified basis remains at $2X. Finally, the full amount of D's and E's shares of § 1.752-1 liabilities must be subtracted. Because there were none, D's modified basis is $7X, and E's modified basis is $2X.


(iii) *Example 3*—(A) *Facts.* HI Inc. is a calendar-year S corporation whose shareholders on January 1, 2024, are H and I, each of whom owns 50 percent of the shares. On May 1, 2024, H sells all of its stock to J. In June 2024, HI Inc. contributes a conservation easement that is a qualified conservation contribution on 400 acres of real property. HI Inc.'s adjusted basis in the conservation easement is $12X (which is different from HI Inc.'s adjusted basis in the 400 acres and also may be different from the value of the conservation easement). On July 1, 2024, I sells all of its stock to K. Under § 1.1377-1, HI Inc. allocates its qualified conservation contribution 
1/6 to H, 
1/4 to I, 
1/3 to J, and 
1/4 to K. Pursuant to the second sentence of section 1367(a)(2)(B), as a result of the qualified conservation contribution, H's adjusted basis in its shares is reduced by $2X, I's adjusted basis in its shares is reduced by $3X, J's adjusted basis in its shares is reduced by $4X, and K's adjusted basis in its shares is reduced by $3X. At the end of HI Inc.'s 2024 taxable year (the end of the day on December 31, 2024), J's adjusted basis in its shares is $15X and K's adjusted basis in its shares is $11X. Immediately prior to H's sale to J, H's adjusted basis in its shares was $8X. Immediately prior to I's sale to K, I's adjusted basis in its shares was $7X. Whether H, I, J, or K have adjusted basis in indebtedness of HI Inc., has no effect on the computation of their modified bases. H is an estate of a deceased shareholder, and I, J, and K are individuals that are not nonresident aliens.


(B) *Analysis.* The ultimate members of HI Inc. are H, I, J, and K, because they each receive a pro rata share of the qualified conservation contribution and are not partnerships or S corporations. To determine H's, I's, J's, and K's modified bases, HI Inc. must begin with each shareholder's adjusted basis in its shares as of the end of the day on December 31, 2024 (the end of the S corporation's taxable year in which it made the qualified conservation contribution). However, because H and I were not shareholders as of the end of the day on December 31, 2024, HI Inc. must begin with H's adjusted basis immediately before H's sale to J, and I's adjusted basis immediately before I's sale to K. Accordingly, the computation of H's modified basis begins with $8X, the computation of I's modified basis begins with $7X, the computation of J's modified basis begins with $15X, and the computation of K's modified basis begins with $11X. Next, HI Inc. must increase these amounts by the extent the adjusted bases were reduced as a result of the qualified conservation contribution. Accordingly, the computation of H's modified basis reflects an increase from $8X to $10X, the computation of I's modified basis reflects an increase from $7X to $10X, the computation of J's modified basis reflects an increase from $15X to $19X, and the computation of K's modified basis reflects an increase from $11X to $14X. Finally, HI Inc. must multiply each of these amounts by the number of days during 2024 in which each ultimate member was a shareholder, and divide by 366 (the total number of days in HI Inc.'s 2024 taxable year). H was a shareholder for 122 days. Thus, H's modified basis is $3.33X ($10X × 122/366). I was a shareholder for 183 days. Thus, I's modified basis is $5X ($10X × 183/366). J was a shareholder for 244 days. Thus, J's modified basis is $12.67X ($19X × 244/366). K was a shareholder for 183 days. Thus, K's modified basis is $7X ($14X × 183/366).


(iv) *Example 4*—(A) *Facts.* PQ Partnership is a calendar-year partnership for Federal income tax purposes whose partners are individuals P and Q. At the beginning of PQ Partnership's 2024 taxable year (the beginning of the day on January 1, 2024), P has a sixty percent interest in all of PQ Partnership's items, including items of income, gain, loss, deduction, credit, and charitable contributions, and P's adjusted basis in its interest in PQ Partnership is $60X. At the beginning of PQ Partnership's 2024 taxable year, Q has a forty percent interest in all of PQ Partnership's items, including items of income, gain, loss, deduction, credit, and charitable contributions, and Q's adjusted basis in its interest in PQ Partnership is $30X. On March 15, 2024, P sells two-thirds of P's interest in PQ Partnership to individual Z, who was not previously a partner in PQ Partnership, for $55X. At the time of the sale, P's adjusted basis in the partnership interests P sold to Z was $40X. At noon on August 29, 2024, PQ Partnership makes a qualified conservation contribution. PQ Partnership allocates twenty percent of the qualified conservation contribution to P, forty percent to Q, and forty percent to Z. Between January 1 and August 29, 2024, PQ Partnership had no items of income, gain, loss, or deduction, and did not make any distributions. No partner made any contributions during 2024. PQ Partnership did not have any § 1.752-1 liabilities during 2024.


(B) *Analysis.* P, Q, and Z are the ultimate members of PQ Partnership because they each receive a distributive share of the qualified conservation contribution and are not partnerships or S corporations. To determine P's, Q's, and Z's modified bases, PQ Partnership must start with P's, Q's, and Z's adjusted bases in PQ Partnership as of the beginning of the first day of the taxable year of PQ Partnership and then make the adjustments required under paragraphs (l)(2)(ii) through (vi) of this section. However, because Z was not a partner as of the beginning of the day on January 1, 2024, PQ Partnership must start with Z's adjusted basis immediately after Z's purchase of two-thirds of P's interest in PQ Partnership. Accordingly, the computation of P's modified basis begins with $60X, the computation of Q's modified basis begins with $30X, and the computation of Z's modified basis begins with $55X. First, those amounts must be increased by any contributions between the beginning of the day on January 1, 2024, and noon on August 29, 2024. Because there were none, after this step, the computation of P's modified basis remains at $60X, the computation of Q's modified basis remains at $30X, and the computation of Z's modified basis remains at $55X. Next, these amounts must be adjusted for any additional acquisitions of partnership interests by an existing partner or partial dispositions of partnership interests by a continuing partner between the beginning of the partnership's taxable year and the time of day at which the qualified conservation contribution is made. P sold two-thirds of its interest to Z prior to PQ Partnership's qualified conservation contribution; P's basis in the interests it sold was $40X. As a result, the computation of P's modified basis reflects a reduction from $60X to $20X. Then these amounts must be adjusted as provided in section 705 by P's, Q's, and Z's hypothetical distributive shares of PQ Partnership's items attributable to the portion of the year between the beginning of the day on January 1, 2024, and noon on August 29, 2024. Because there were none, after this step, the computation of P's modified basis remains at $20X, the computation of Q's modified basis remains at $30X, and the computation of Z's modified basis remains at $55X. Next, these amounts must be reduced by any distributions between the beginning of the day on January 1, 2024, and noon on August 29, 2024. Because there were none, after this step, the computation of P's modified basis remains at $20X, the computation of Q's modified basis remains at $30X, and the computation of Z's modified basis remains at $55X. Finally, the full amount of P's, Q's, and Z's shares of § 1.752-1 liabilities must be subtracted. Because there were none, P's modified basis is $20X, Q's modified basis is $30X, and Z's modified basis is $55X.




(m) *Allocation of modified basis*—(1) *In general.* An allocation of an ultimate member's modified basis to the portion of the real property with respect to which the qualified conservation contribution is made must be made in accordance with this paragraph (m). Rules for allocating an ultimate member's modified basis in a contributing partnership are provided in paragraph (m)(2) of this section. Rules for allocating an ultimate member's modified basis in a contributing S corporation are provided in paragraph (m)(3) of this section. Rules for allocating an ultimate member's modified basis in an upper-tier partnership are provided in paragraph (m)(4) of this section. Rules for allocating an ultimate member's modified basis in an upper-tier S corporation are provided in paragraph (m)(5) of this section. Records must be kept in accordance with paragraph (m)(6) of this section.


(2) *Determination of relevant basis for an ultimate member holding a direct interest in a contributing partnership*—(i) *Narrative rule.* This paragraph (m)(2) applies in the case of an ultimate member holding a direct interest in a contributing partnership and provides that a contributing partnership must determine each such ultimate member's relevant basis as provided in this paragraph (m)(2). Relevant basis equals each ultimate member's modified basis as determined under paragraph (l)(2) of this section multiplied by a fraction—


(A) The numerator of which is the ultimate member's share of the contributing partnership's adjusted basis in the portion of the real property with respect to which the qualified conservation contribution is made as determined under paragraph (m)(2)(ii) of this section; and


(B) The denominator of which is the ultimate member's portion of the adjusted basis in all the contributing partnership's properties as determined under paragraph (m)(2)(iii) of this section.


(ii) *Ultimate member's share of the contributing partnership's adjusted basis in the portion of the real property with respect to which the qualified conservation contribution is made.* For purposes of this paragraph (m)(2), an ultimate member's share of the contributing partnership's adjusted basis in the portion of the real property with respect to which the qualified conservation contribution is made equals the contributing partnership's adjusted basis in the portion of the real property with respect to which the qualified conservation contribution is made (determined as of the time of day of the contribution) multiplied by a fraction—


(A) The numerator of which is the ultimate member's distributive share of the qualified conservation contribution; and


(B) The denominator of which is the total amount of the contributing partnership's qualified conservation contribution.


(iii) *Ultimate member's portion of the adjusted basis in all the contributing partnership's properties*—(A) For purposes of this paragraph (m)(2), an ultimate member's portion of the adjusted basis in all the contributing partnership's properties is equal to the sum of:


(*1*) The ultimate member's share of the contributing partnership's adjusted basis in the portion of the real property with respect to which the qualified conservation contribution is made as determined under paragraph (m)(2)(ii) of this section; plus


(*2*) The ultimate member's portion of the adjusted basis in all the contributing partnership's properties other than the portion of the real property with respect to which the qualified conservation contribution is made as determined under paragraph (m)(2)(iii)(B) of this section.


(B) To determine a partner's portion of the adjusted basis in all of a contributing partnership's properties, the contributing partnership must apportion among its partners its adjusted basis in each of its properties (except the portion of the real property with respect to which the qualified conservation contribution is made), using the adjusted basis immediately before the qualified conservation contribution, without duplication or omission of any property, and by treating the adjusted basis in each property as not less than zero. This apportionment must be done under principles similar to the determination of the partners' interests in the partnership under section 704(b), including the factors in § 1.704-1(b)(3)(ii). In addition, the apportionment must reflect section 704(c) principles. For example, if a partnership property has built-in loss (the adjusted basis of the property exceeds its fair market value), and section 704(c) would require all of that built-in loss to be allocated to a certain partner if that property was sold, all of the basis in the property that exceeds the property's fair market value must be apportioned to the partner to whom the loss would be allocated if the property was sold.


(iv) *Formulaic rule.* The rule of this paragraph (m)(2) is also expressed in the following formula:


(3) *Determination of relevant basis for an ultimate member holding a direct interest in a contributing S corporation*—(i) *Narrative rule.* This paragraph (m)(3) applies in the case of an ultimate member holding a direct interest in a contributing S corporation and provides that a contributing S corporation must determine each such ultimate member's relevant basis as provided in this paragraph (m)(3). Relevant basis equals each ultimate member's modified basis as determined under paragraph (l)(3) of this section multiplied by a fraction—


(A) The numerator of which is the ultimate member's pro rata portion of the contributing S corporation's adjusted basis in the portion of the real property with respect to which the qualified conservation contribution is made; and


(B) The denominator of which is the ultimate member's pro rata portion of the adjusted basis in all the contributing S corporation's properties (including the portion of the real property with respect to which the qualified conservation contribution is made).


(ii) *Formulaic rule.* The rule of this paragraph (m)(3) is also expressed in the following formula:


(4) *Determination of relevant basis for an ultimate member holding a direct interest in an upper-tier partnership*—(i) *In general.* This paragraph (m)(4) applies in the case of an ultimate member holding a direct interest in an upper-tier partnership. Each such ultimate member's modified basis must be traced through all upper-tier partnerships to the contributing partnership, and the contributing partnership must determine the relevant basis. This involves a multi-step process under which, beginning with the upper-tier partnership in which the ultimate member holds a direct interest, each upper-tier partnership must perform calculations, and then finally the contributing partnership must use those calculations to compute the ultimate member's relevant basis. For simplicity, this paragraph (m)(4) describes a situation in which there are two tiers of partnerships—a contributing partnership and an upper-tier partnership. In a situation involving more tiers, each partnership must apply the rules and principles of this paragraph (m)(4) iteratively to determine relevant basis.


(ii) *Upper-tier partnership*—(A) *Narrative rule*—(*1*) *In general.* The upper-tier partnership must determine the portion of each ultimate member's modified basis that is allocable to the upper-tier partnership's interest in the partnership in which it holds a direct interest (in a situation involving only two tiers of partnerships, that will be the contributing partnership). This determination must be done in accordance with the principles of paragraph (m)(2) of this section, the rule in paragraph (m)(4)(ii)(A)(*2*) of this section, and the formula provided in paragraph (m)(4)(ii)(B) of this section. In other words, the formula provided in paragraph (m)(4)(ii)(B) of this section is similar to the formula provided in paragraph (m)(2)(iv) of this section, except that, instead of determining the portion of modified basis that is allocable to the portion of the real property with respect to which the qualified conservation contribution is made, the formula in paragraph (m)(4)(ii)(B) of this section determines the portion of modified basis that is allocable to the upper-tier partnership's interest in the next lower-tier partnership. As explained in paragraph (m)(4)(iii) of this section, the contributing partnership will then use the amount determined under the formula in paragraph (m)(4)(ii)(B) of this section to compute the portion of modified basis that is allocable to the portion of the real property with respect to which the qualified conservation contribution is made.


(*2) Apportionment of upper-tier partnership's adjusted bases in its properties.* To determine a partner's portion of the adjusted basis in all of an upper-tier partnership's properties, the upper-tier partnership must apportion among its partners its adjusted basis in each of its properties (except its interest in the lower-tier partnership), using the adjusted basis immediately before the qualified conservation contribution, without duplication or omission of any property, and by treating the adjusted basis in each property as not less than zero. This apportionment must be done under principles similar to the determination of the partners' interests in the partnership under section 704(b), including the factors in § 1.704-1(b)(3)(ii). In addition, the apportionment must reflect section 704(c) principles. For example, if a partnership property has built-in loss (the adjusted basis of the property exceeds its fair market value), and section 704(c) would require all of that built-in loss to be allocated to a certain partner if that property was sold, all of the basis in the property that exceeds the property's fair market value must be apportioned to the partner to whom the loss would be allocated if the property was sold.


(B) *Formulaic rule.* The rule of this paragraph (m)(4)(ii) is also expressed in the following formula:


(iii) *Contributing partnership*—(A) *Narrative rule.* After completion of the computations under paragraph (m)(4)(ii) of this section, the contributing partnership must determine the portion of the amount determined under item G (*see* paragraph (m)(4)(ii)(B) of this section) with respect to each ultimate member that is allocable to the portion of the real property with respect to which the qualified conservation contribution is made. This determination must be done in accordance with the principles of paragraph (m)(2) of this section and the formula provided in paragraph (m)(4)(iii)(B) of this section.


(B) *Formulaic rule.* The rule of this paragraph (m)(4)(iii) is also expressed in the following formula:


(5) *Determination of relevant basis for an ultimate member holding a direct interest in an upper-tier S corporation*—(i) *In general.* This paragraph (m)(5) applies in the case of an ultimate member holding a direct interest in an upper-tier S corporation. Each such ultimate member's modified basis must be traced through the upper-tier S corporation and any upper-tier partnerships to the contributing partnership, and the contributing partnership must determine the relevant basis. This involves a multi-step process under which, beginning with the upper-tier S corporation, the upper-tier S corporation and any upper-tier partnerships must perform calculations, and then finally the contributing partnership must use those calculations to compute the ultimate member's relevant basis. For simplicity, this paragraph (m)(5) describes a situation in which there are two tiers—a contributing partnership and an upper-tier S corporation. In a situation involving more tiers, each partnership and the upper-tier S corporation must apply the rules and principles of this paragraph (m) iteratively to determine relevant basis.


(ii) *Upper-tier S corporation*—(A) *Narrative rule.* The upper-tier S corporation must determine the portion of each ultimate member's modified basis that is allocable to the upper-tier S corporation's interest in the partnership in which it holds a direct interest (in a situation involving only two tiers, that will be the contributing partnership). This determination must be done in accordance with the principles of paragraph (m)(3) of this section and the formula provided in paragraph (m)(5)(ii)(B) of this section. In other words, the formula provided in paragraph (m)(5)(ii)(B) of this section is similar to the formula provided in paragraph (m)(3)(ii) of this section, except that, instead of determining the portion of modified basis that is allocable to the portion of the real property with respect to which the qualified conservation contribution is made, the formula in paragraph (m)(5)(ii)(B) of this section determines the portion of modified basis that is allocable to the upper-tier S corporation's interest in the next lower-tier partnership. As explained in paragraph (m)(5)(iii) of this section, the contributing partnership will then use the amount determined under the formula in paragraph (m)(5)(ii)(B) of this section to compute the portion of modified basis that is allocable to the portion of the real property with respect to which the qualified conservation contribution is made.


(B) *Formulaic rule.* The rule of this paragraph (m)(5)(ii) is also expressed in the following formula:


(iii) *Contributing partnership*—(A) *Narrative rule.* After completion of the computations under paragraph (m)(5)(ii) of this section, the contributing partnership must determine the portion of the amount determined under item N (*see* paragraph (m)(5)(ii)(B) of this section) with respect to each ultimate member that is allocable to the portion of the real property with respect to which the qualified conservation contribution is made. This determination must be done in accordance with the principles of paragraph (m)(2) of this section and the formula provided in paragraph (m)(5)(iii)(B) of this section.


(B) *Formulaic rule.* The rule of this paragraph (m)(5)(iii) is also expressed in the following formula:


(6) *Recordkeeping requirements.* Contributing partnerships, contributing S corporations, upper-tier partnerships, and upper-tier S corporations must maintain dated, written statements in their books and records, by the due date, including extensions, of their Federal income tax returns, substantiating the computation of each ultimate member's adjusted basis, modified basis, and relevant basis. *See* § 1.6001-1. These statements need not be maintained (nor does modified basis or relevant basis need to be computed) with respect to contributions that meet an exception in paragraph (n)(2) or (3) of this section, unless the contribution also meets the exception in paragraph (n)(4) of this section (in which case these statements need to be maintained and modified basis and relevant basis need to be computed).


(7) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the provisions of this paragraph (m). For the examples in this paragraph (m)(7), assume that the partnership allocations comply with the rules of subchapter K of chapter 1 of the Code and the exceptions in paragraph (n) of this section do not apply.


(i) *Example 1*—(A) *Facts.* YZ Partnership is a partnership for Federal income tax purposes whose partners are individuals Y and Z. YZ Partnership owns 100 acres of real property with an adjusted basis of $10X. YZ Partnership makes a qualified conservation contribution on 60 acres of the property. YZ Partnership claims a contribution of $18X, which it allocates $12X to Y and $6X to Z. YZ Partnership's adjusted basis in the 60 acres is $6X, and its adjusted basis in all of its other properties (including its $4X basis in the 40 acres on which a qualified conservation contribution was not made) is $18X. Y's modified basis is $8X. Y's portion of YZ Partnership's adjusted basis in all partnership property (other than the 60 acres) as determined under paragraph (m)(2)(iii)(B) of this section is $4X. Z's modified basis is $12X. Z's portion of YZ Partnership's adjusted basis in all partnership property (other than the 60 acres) as determined under paragraph (m)(2)(iii)(B) of this section is $14X.


(B) *General analysis.* Y and Z are the ultimate members of YZ Partnership because they each receive a distributive share of the qualified conservation contribution and are not partnerships or S corporations. Their relevant bases must be determined according to the following formula:


(C) *Y's relevant basis.* With respect to Y:


(*1*) M = $8X.


(*2*) D = $4X.


(*3*) A = $6X.


(*4*) B = $12X.


(*5*) C = $18X.


(*6*) Thus, T is $4X = $6X × ($12X ÷ $18X).


(*7*) Accordingly, Y's relevant basis is $4X = $8X × ($4X ÷ ($4X + $4X)).


(D) *Z's relevant basis.* With respect to Z:


(*1*) M = $12X.


(*2*) D = $14X.


(*3*) A = $6X.


(*4*) B = $6X.


(*5*) C = $18X.


(*6*) Thus, T is $2X = $6X × ($6X ÷ $18X).


(*7*) Accordingly, Z's relevant basis is $1.5X = $12X × ($2X ÷ ($14X + $2X)).


(E) *Sum of the relevant bases.* The amount of YZ Partnership's claimed contribution is $18X, which exceeds 2.5 times the sum of Y's and Z's relevant bases, which is $13.75X ($13.75X = 2.5 × (Y's relevant basis of $4X + Z's relevant basis of $1.5X)). Accordingly, YZ Partnership's contribution is a disallowed qualified conservation contribution. No person may claim any deduction with respect to this contribution.


(ii) *Example 2*—(A) *Facts.* CD Inc. is an S corporation with shareholders C and D, each of whom is an individual that is not a nonresident alien. C owns one third of the outstanding stock in CD Inc., and D owns the remaining two thirds. CD Inc. owns 100 acres of real property with an adjusted basis of $10X. CD Inc. makes a qualified conservation contribution on 60 acres of the property. CD Inc. claims a contribution of $9X, which it allocates $3X to C and $6X to D. CD Inc.'s adjusted basis in the 60 acres is $6X, and its adjusted basis in all its properties (including its $6X basis in the 60 acres) is $24X. C's modified basis in CD Inc. is $8X. D's modified basis in CD Inc. is $12X.


(B) *General analysis.* C and D are the ultimate members of CD Inc. because they each receive a pro rata share of the qualified conservation contribution and are not partnerships or S corporations. Their relevant bases must be determined according to the following formula:


(C) *C's relevant basis.* With respect to C:


(*1*) M = $8X.


(*2*) E = $2X (
1/3 of $6X).


(*3*) F = $8X (
1/3 of $24X).


(*4*) Thus, C's relevant basis is $2X = $8X × ($2X ÷ $8X).


(D) *D's relevant basis.* With respect to D:


(*1*) M = $12X.


(*2*) E = $4X (
2/3 of $6X).


(*3*) F = $16X (
2/3 of $24X).


(*4*) Thus, D's relevant basis is $3X = $12X × ($4X ÷ $16X).


(E) *Sum of the relevant bases.* The amount of CD Inc.'s claimed qualified conservation contribution is $9X, which does not exceed 2.5 times the sum of C's and D's relevant bases, which is $12.50X ($12.50X = 2.5 × (C's relevant basis of $2X + D's relevant basis of $3X)). Accordingly, CD Inc.'s contribution is not a disallowed qualified conservation contribution (that is, is not disallowed by section 170(h)(7) and paragraph (j) of this section).


(iii) *Example 3*—(A) *Facts.* LTP Partnership is a partnership for Federal income tax purposes whose partners are individual E and UTP Partnership, a partnership for Federal income tax purposes. UTP Partnership's partners are C corporations P and Q. LTP Partnership owns 300 acres of real property. LTP Partnership makes a qualified conservation contribution on all 300 acres. LTP Partnership claims a qualified conservation contribution of $22X, which it allocates $2X to E and $20X to UTP Partnership. UTP Partnership allocates its $20X share of the qualified conservation contribution $6X to P and $14X to Q. LTP Partnership's basis in the 300 acres is $18X, and its adjusted basis in all of its other properties is $12X. E's modified basis in LTP Partnership is $4X. E's portion of LTP Partnership's adjusted basis in all partnership property (other than the 300 acres) as determined under paragraph (m)(2)(iii)(B) of this section is $4.36X. UTP Partnership's portion of LTP Partnership's adjusted basis in all partnership property (other than the 300 acres) as determined under paragraph (m)(2)(iii)(B) of this section is $7.64X. UTP Partnership's adjusted basis in its interest in LTP Partnership is $19X, and its adjusted basis in all other properties is $6X. P's modified basis in UTP Partnership is $12X. P's portion of UTP Partnership's adjusted basis in all partnership property (other than the interest in LTP Partnership) as determined under paragraph (m)(4)(ii)(A)(*2*) of this section is $3.6X. Q's modified basis in UTP Partnership is $8X. Q's portion of UTP Partnership's adjusted basis of all partnership property (other than the interest in LTP Partnership) as determined under paragraph (m)(4)(ii)(A)(*2*) of this section is $2.4X.


(B) *Analysis: partner E.* (*1*) The ultimate members of LTP Partnership are E, P, and Q because they each receive a distributive share of the qualified conservation contribution and are not partnerships or S corporations. Because E holds a direct interest in LTP Partnership, E's relevant basis must be determined in accordance with the following formula:


(*2*) With respect to E:


(*i*) M = $4X.


(*ii*) D = $4.36X.


(*iii*) A = $18X.


(*iv*) B = $2X.


(*v*) C = $22X.


(*vi*) Thus, T is $1.64X = $18X × ($2X ÷ $22X).


(*vii*) Accordingly, E's relevant basis is $1.09X = $4X × ($1.64X ÷ ($4.36X + $1.64X)).


(C) *Analysis: General rule for UTP Partnership.* Because P and Q hold interests in an upper-tier partnership, UTP Partnership must first determine the portions of P's and Q's modified bases that are allocable to UTP Partnership's interest in LTP Partnership. This is to be done according to the following formula:


(D) *Analysis: Step 1 for P.* With respect to P:


(*1*) M = $12X.


(*2*) J = $3.6X.


(*3*) H = $19X.


(*4*) B = $6X.


(*5*) K = $20X.


(*6*) Thus, U is $5.70X = $19X × ($6X ÷ $20X).


(*7*) Accordingly, the portion of P's modified basis that is allocable to UTP Partnership's interest in LTP Partnership is $7.35X = $12X × ($5.70X ÷ ($3.60X + $5.70X)).


(E) *Analysis: Step 1 for Q.* With respect to Q:


(*1*) M = $8X.


(*2*) J = $2.4X.


(*3*) H = $19X.


(*4*) B = $14X.


(*5*) K = $20X.


(*6*) Thus, U is $13.30X = $19X × ($14X ÷ $20X).


(*7*) Accordingly, the portion of Q's modified basis that is allocable to UTP Partnership's interest in LTP Partnership is $6.78X = $8X × ($13.30X ÷ ($2.40X + $13.30X)).


(F) *Analysis: General rule for LTP Partnership.* Next, LTP Partnership must determine P's and Q's relevant bases, which equal the portions of the amounts determined under paragraphs (m)(7)(iii)(D) and (E) of this section (*Example 3*) that are allocable to the portion of the real property with respect to which the qualified conservation contribution was made. This must be done according to the following formula:


(G) *Analysis: Step 2 for P.* With respect to P:


(*1*) G = $7.35X.


(*2*) L = $7.64X.


(*3*) A = $18X.


(*4*) K = $20X.


(*5*) C = $22X.


(*6*) Thus, V is $16.36X = $18X × ($20X ÷ $22X).


(*7*) Accordingly, P's relevant basis is $5.01X = $7.35X × ($16.36X ÷ ($7.64X + $16.36X)).


(H) *Analysis: Step 2 for Q.* With respect to Q:


(*1*) G = $6.78X.


(*2*) L = $7.64X.


(*3*) A = $18X.


(*4*) K = $20X.


(*5*) C = $22X.


(*6*) Thus, V is $16.36X = $18X × ($20X ÷ $22X).


(*7*) Accordingly, Q's relevant basis is $4.62X = $6.78X × ($16.36X ÷ ($7.64X + $16.36X)).


(I) *Analysis: Computation of 2.5 times sum of the relevant bases.* The ultimate members of LTP Partnership are E, P, and Q. The amount of LTP Partnership's qualified conservation contribution is $22X. This does not exceed 2.5 times the sum of each of the ultimate member's relevant basis, which totals $26.80X ($26.80X = 2.5 x (E's relevant basis of 1.09X + P's relevant basis of $5.01X + Q's relevant basis of $4.62X)). Therefore, LTP Partnership's contribution is not a disallowed qualified conservation contribution (that is, is not disallowed by section 170(h)(7) and paragraph (j) of this section). Because UTP Partnership receives an allocated portion, it must apply paragraphs (j) through (l) of this section and this paragraph (m) to determine whether its allocated portion is a disallowed qualified conservation contribution. The ultimate members of UTP Partnership are P and Q. The amount of UTP Partnership's allocated portion of LTP Partnership's qualified conservation contribution is $20X. This does not exceed 2.5 times the sum of P's and Q's relevant bases, which is $24.08X ($24.08X = 2.5 × (P's relevant basis of $5.01X + Q's relevant basis of $4.62X)). Therefore, UTP Partnership's allocated portion of LTP Partnership's contribution is not a disallowed qualified conservation contribution (that is, is not disallowed by section 170(h)(7) and paragraph (j) of this section).


(iv) *Example 4*—(A) *Facts.* Individuals V and W form VW Partnership, a partnership for Federal income tax purposes. V and W each hold a fifty percent interest in all of VW Partnership's items of income, gain, loss, deduction, credits, and charitable contributions. On formation of VW Partnership, V contributes $1,000X cash to VW Partnership and W contributes GainProp, which is non-depreciable property with a value of $1,000X and basis of $500X. VW Partnership buys real property (RealProp), with its $1,000X cash. Later, at a time when VW Partnership's basis in RealProp is still $1,000X, and its basis in GainProp is still $500X, VW Partnership makes a qualified conservation contribution with respect to all of RealProp, which it allocates equally to V and W. VW Partnership continues to hold GainProp. V's modified basis is $1,000X and W's modified basis is $500X.


(B) *General analysis.* V and W are the ultimate members of VW Partnership because they each receive a distributive share of the qualified conservation contribution and are not partnerships or S corporations. Their relevant bases must be determined according to the following formula:


(C) *V's relevant basis.* With respect to V:


(*1*) M = $1,000X.


(*2*) D = $250X (half of VW Partnership's adjusted basis in GainProp).


(*3*) T = $500X (half of VW Partnership's adjusted basis in RealProp).


(*4*) Accordingly, V's relevant basis is $666.67X = $1,000X × ($500X ÷ ($250X + $500X)).


(D) *W's relevant basis.* With respect to W:


(*1*) M = $500X.


(*2*) D = $250X (half of VW Partnership's basis in GainProp).


(*3*) T = $500X (half of VW Partnership's adjusted basis in RealProp).


(*4*) Accordingly, W's relevant basis is $333.33X = $500X × ($500X ÷ ($250X + $500X)).


(v) *Example 5*—(A) *Facts.* Assume the same facts as in paragraph (m)(7)(iv) of this section (*Example 4*), except that W does not contribute GainProp; instead, W contributes LossProp, which is non-depreciable property with a value of $1,000X and basis of $2,000X. At the time that VW Partnership makes the qualified conservation contribution on RealProp, the value of LossProp is still $1,000X and the basis of LossProp is still $2,000X. V's modified basis is $1,000X and W's modified basis is $2,000X.


(B) *General analysis.* V and W are the ultimate members of VW Partnership because they each receive a distributive share of the qualified conservation contribution and are not partnerships or S corporations. Their relevant bases must be determined according to the following formula:


(C) *V's relevant basis.* With respect to V:


(*1*) M = $1,000X.


(*2*) D = $500X (half of the $1,000X portion of LossProp's adjusted basis that does not exceed LossProp's $1,000X value)


(*3*) T = $500X (half of VW Partnership's adjusted basis in RealProp)


(*4*) Accordingly, V's relevant basis is $500X = $1,000X × ($500X ÷ ($500X + $500X)).


(D) *W's relevant basis.* With respect to W:


(*1*) M = $2,000X.


(*2*) D = $1,500X (half of the $1,000X portion of LossProp's adjusted basis that does not exceed LossProp's $1,000X value, plus all of the $1,000X portion of LossProp's adjusted basis in excess of LossProp's $1,000X value).


(*3*) T = $500X (half of VW Partnership's adjusted basis in RealProp).


(*4*) Accordingly, W's relevant basis is $500X = $2,000X × ($500X ÷ ($1,500X + $500X)).


(n) *Exceptions*—(1) *In general.* Paragraph (j) of this section does not apply to any qualified conservation contribution that satisfies one or more of the three exceptions in this paragraph (n). However, as provided in paragraph (j)(5) of this section, there is no presumption that a contribution that satisfies one or more of the three exceptions in this paragraph (n) is compliant with section 170, any other section of the Code, the regulations in this part, or any other guidance. Being described in this paragraph (n) is not a safe harbor for purposes of any other provision of law or with respect to the value of the contribution. Such transactions are subject to adjustment or disallowance for any other reason, including failure to satisfy other requirements of section 170 or overvaluation of the contribution. In addition, taxpayers who engage in transactions that satisfy one or more of the three exceptions in this paragraph (n) may nonetheless be required to disclose, under § 1.6011-4, the transactions as listed transactions.


(2) *Exception for contributions outside three-year holding period*—(i) *In general.* Paragraph (j) of this section does not apply to any qualified conservation contribution by a contributing partnership or contributing S corporation made at least three years after the latest of—


(A) The last date on which the contributing partnership or contributing S corporation acquired any portion of the real property with respect to which such qualified conservation contribution is made;


(B) The last date on which any partner in the contributing partnership or shareholder in the contributing S corporation acquired any interest in such partnership or S corporation; and


(C) If the interest in the contributing partnership is held through one or more upper-tier partnerships or upper-tier S corporations—


(*1*) The last date on which any such upper-tier partnership or upper-tier S corporation acquired any interest in the contributing partnership or any other upper-tier partnership; and


(*2*) The last date on which any partner or shareholder in any such upper-tier partnership or upper-tier S corporation acquired any interest in such upper-tier partnership or upper-tier S corporation.


(ii) *Acquisition of partnership interest.* For purposes of this paragraph (n)(2), an acquisition of any interest in a partnership is any *variation* within the meaning of that term in § 1.706-4(a)(1); however, a variation does not include a change in allocations that satisfies the requirements of § 1.706-4(b)(1).


(iii) *Acquisition of interest in an S corporation.* For purposes of this paragraph (n)(2), an acquisition of any interest in an S corporation is any transfer, issuance, redemption, or other disposition of stock in the S corporation; however, an acquisition does not include any issuance or redemption involving all shareholders that does not affect the proportionate ownership of any shareholder.


(iv) *Exception is determined at the level of the contributing partnership or contributing S corporation.* If the contributing partnership or contributing S corporation does not satisfy the requirements of this paragraph (n)(2), then this paragraph (n)(2) will not apply to any person who receives a distributive share or pro rata share of the qualified conservation contribution (including an upper-tier partnership or upper-tier S corporation), regardless of whether the person receiving such distributive share or pro rata share would have satisfied the requirements of this paragraph (n)(2) if the person had been the one to make the qualified conservation contribution.


(v) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the provisions of this paragraph (n)(2). For the two examples in this paragraph (n)(2)(v), assume that the exceptions in paragraphs (n)(3) and (4) of this section do not apply.


(A) *Example 1*—(*1*) *Facts.* ABC Partnership is a partnership for Federal income tax purposes. Since 2015, ABC Partnership's partners have been A, an individual, and BC Inc., an S corporation. Since 2015, BC Inc.'s shareholders have been B and C, each of whom is an individual that is not a nonresident alien. On December 27, 2024, ABC Partnership acquires real property. On August 29, 2025, BC Inc. redeems half of B's shares in BC Inc. On December 28, 2027, ABC Partnership makes a qualified conservation contribution.


(*2*) *Analysis.* Pursuant to paragraph (n)(2)(iii) of this section, BC Inc.'s redemption of some of B's shares is treated as an acquisition of an interest in BC Inc. for purposes of this paragraph (n)(2). Accordingly, ABC Partnership's contribution occurred less than three years after the latest acquisition of an interest in a partnership or S corporation that held an interest in ABC Partnership, the contributing partnership. Therefore, ABC Partnership's contribution fails to satisfy the requirements of this paragraph (n)(2) and ABC Partnership must apply the provisions of paragraphs (j) through (m) of this section to determine whether the contribution is a disallowed qualified conservation contribution.


(B) *Example 2*—(*1*) *Facts.* LTP Partnership is a partnership for Federal income tax purposes. Since 2017, LTP Partnership's partners have been UTP Partnership, a partnership for Federal income tax purposes, and FG Inc., an S corporation. Since 2018, UTP Partnership's partners have been individuals D and E, and there has been no variation in their ownership. Since 2019, FG Inc.'s shareholders have been F and G, each of whom is an individual that is not a nonresident alien. On March 15, 2024, LTP Partnership acquires real property. On September 15, 2026, D dies and D's interest in UTP Partnership passes to D's estate. On March 18, 2027, LTP Partnership makes a qualified conservation contribution. LTP Partnership allocates all of the qualified conservation contribution to FG Inc.


(*2*) *Analysis.* Pursuant to paragraph (n)(2)(ii) of this section, the transfer of D's interest in UTP Partnership to D's estate is treated as an acquisition of an interest in UTP Partnership for purposes of this paragraph (n)(2). Accordingly, LTP Partnership's contribution occurred less than three years after the latest acquisition of an interest in a partnership or S corporation that held an interest in LTP Partnership, the contributing partnership. Therefore, LTP Partnership's contribution fails to satisfy the requirements of this paragraph (n)(2). Pursuant to paragraph (n)(2)(iv) of this section, FG Inc. cannot avail itself of this paragraph (n)(2) with respect to its allocated portion of LTP Partnership's contribution. Accordingly, FG Inc. must apply the provisions of paragraphs (j) through (m) of this section to determine whether its allocated portion is a disallowed qualified conservation contribution.


(3) *Exception for family partnerships and S corporations*—(i) *General rule.* Paragraph (j) of this section does not apply with respect to any qualified conservation contribution made by a contributing partnership or contributing S corporation if at least 90 percent of the interests in the contributing partnership or contributing S corporation are held by an individual and members of the family of such individual and the contributing partnership or contributing S corporation meets the requirements of this paragraph (n)(3).


(ii) *Ninety percent of the interests*—(A) *Family partnerships.* In the case of a contributing partnership, at least 90 percent of the interests in the contributing partnership are held by an individual and members of the family of such individual if, at the time of the qualified conservation contribution, at least 90 percent of the interests in capital and profits in such partnership are held, directly or indirectly, by an individual and members of the family of such individual.


(B) *Family S corporations.* In the case of a contributing S corporation, at least 90 percent of the interests in the contributing S corporation are held by an individual and members of the family of such individual if, at the time of the qualified conservation contribution, at least 90 percent of the total value and at least 90 percent of the total voting power of the outstanding stock in such S corporation are held by an individual and members of the family of such individual.


(iii) *Members of the family.* For purposes of this paragraph (n)(3), the term *members of the family* means, with respect to any individual—


(A) The spouse of such individual;


(B) Any individual who bears a relationship to such individual that is described in section 152(d)(2)(A) through (G) of the Code;


(C) The estate of a deceased individual who was described in paragraph (n)(3)(iii)(A) or (B) of this section at the time of death; and


(D) A trust all of the beneficiaries of which are individuals described in paragraph (n)(3)(iii)(A) or (B) of this section, treating as *beneficiaries* for this purpose those persons who currently must or may receive income or principal from the trust and those persons who would succeed to the property of the trust if the trust were to terminate immediately before the qualified conservation contribution.


(iv) *Anti-abuse rules*—(A) *Holding period.* This paragraph (n)(3) does not apply unless at least 90 percent of the interests in the property with respect to which the qualified conservation contribution was made were owned, directly or indirectly, by an individual and members of the family of that individual for at least one year prior to the date of the contribution. The members of the family during that year need not be the same members of the family that own an interest at the time of the qualified conservation contribution; however, at least one individual must own an interest for the entire year, and at least 90 percent of the interests in the property must be owned, directly or indirectly, during that year by that individual and members of that individual's family. Solely for purposes of this paragraph (n)(3)(iv)(A), section 1223(1) and (2) of the Code do not apply in determining whether at least ninety percent of the interests in the property with respect to which the qualified conservation contribution was made were owned, directly or indirectly, by one individual and members of the family of that individual for at least one year prior to the date of the contribution. This paragraph (n)(3)(iv)(A) does not apply if the entire amount of the qualified conservation contribution is limited by section 170(e) to the contributing partnership's or contributing S corporation's adjusted basis in the qualified conservation contribution.


(B) *Allocations.* This paragraph (n)(3) does not apply unless at least 90 percent of the qualified conservation contribution is allocated to the individual and all members of the family who own at least 90 percent of the interests in the contributing partnership or contributing S corporation under paragraph (n)(3)(ii) of this section.


(v) *Exception is determined at the level of the contributing partnership or contributing S corporation.* If the contributing partnership or contributing S corporation satisfies the requirements of this paragraph (n)(3), then any upper-tier partnership or upper-tier S corporation need not apply paragraphs (j) through (m) of this section and this paragraph (n) to its allocated portions of such contribution. If the contributing partnership or contributing S corporation does not satisfy the requirements of this paragraph (n)(3), then the exception in this paragraph (n)(3) will not apply to any person who receives a distributive share or pro rata share of the qualified conservation contribution (including an upper-tier partnership or upper-tier S corporation), regardless of whether the person receiving such distributive share or pro rata share would have satisfied the requirements of this paragraph (n)(3) if the person had been the one to make the contribution.


(vi) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the provisions of this paragraph (n)(3). For the two examples in this paragraph (n)(3)(vi), assume that the exceptions in paragraphs (n)(2) and (4) of this section do not apply.


(A) *Example 1*—(*1*) *Facts.* Individual A and A's sibling B acquire real property by purchase on July 5, 2024. On September 14, 2024, B transfers its interest in the real property to B's child C. On February 21, 2025, A and C transfer their interests in the real property to AC Partnership, a partnership for Federal income tax purposes whose only partners are A and C. On March 18, 2025, A's stepfather D becomes a partner in AC Partnership in exchange for a capital contribution. On September 15, 2025, AC Partnership makes a qualified conservation contribution on the real property. AC Partnership never had any partners other than A, C, and D.


(*2*) *Analysis.* B, C, and D qualify as members of the family with respect to A. Accordingly, as of the time of the qualified conservation contribution, at least 90 percent of the interests in capital and profits of AC Partnership were owned by an individual and members of that individual's family. In addition, at least 90 percent of the interests in the property with respect to which the qualified conservation contribution was made were owned, directly and indirectly, by A and members of A's family for at least one year prior to the date of the contribution. Moreover, at least 90 percent of the contribution is allocated to A and members of A's family. Accordingly, the requirements of this paragraph (n)(3) are satisfied, and the Disallowance Rule in section 170(h)(7)(A) and paragraph (j) of this section does not apply.


(B) *Example 2*—(*1*) *Facts.* LTP Partnership is a partnership for Federal income tax purposes whose partners are EF Inc., an S corporation, and UTP Partnership, a partnership for Federal income tax purposes. EF Inc. and UTP Partnership each hold a 50 percent interest in the profits and capital of LTP Partnership. The shareholders of EF Inc. are E and E's sibling F. The partners of UTP Partnership are G and G's child H. E and F are not related to G and H. LTP Partnership has held real property since 2019. On July 5, 2024, LTP Partnership distributes half of the acres of its real property to EF Inc., and the remaining acres to UTP Partnership. On October 21, 2024, EF Inc., makes a qualified conservation contribution on the real property it received from LTP Partnership. The amount of EF Inc.'s qualified conservation contribution is not limited by section 170(e).


(*2*) *Analysis.* F qualifies as a member of the family with respect to E. Accordingly, as of the time of EF Inc.'s qualified conservation contribution, EF Inc. was owned at least 90 percent by an individual and members of that individual's family. In addition, at least 90 percent of EF Inc's qualified conservation contribution is allocated to E and members of E's family. However, E and members of E's family failed to own at least 90 percent of the property with respect to which the qualified conservation contribution was made for at least one year prior to the date of the contribution. In particular, G and H (who are not members of the family with respect to E or F) indirectly owned a 50 percent interest in the property until July 5, 2024. Accordingly, the requirements of this paragraph (n)(3) are not satisfied. EF Inc. must apply the provisions of paragraphs (j) through (m) of this section to determine whether the contribution is a disallowed qualified conservation contribution. If the entire amount of EF Inc.'s qualified conservation contribution had been limited by section 170(e) to EF Inc.'s adjusted basis in the qualified conservation contribution, then paragraph (n)(3)(iv)(A) of this section would not have applied; accordingly, the requirements of this paragraph (n)(3) would have been satisfied, and the Disallowance Rule in section 170(h)(7)(A) and paragraph (j) of this section would not have applied.


(4) *Exception for contributions to preserve certified historic structures.* Paragraph (j) of this section does not apply to any qualified conservation contribution the conservation purpose of which is the preservation of any building that is a certified historic structure (as defined in section 170(h)(4)(C)). *See* § 1.170A-16(f)(6) for special reporting requirements for a contribution that meets the exception in this paragraph (n)(4).




(o) *Applicability dates*—(1) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraphs (g)(4)(ii), (i), and (o)(2) of this section, paragraphs (a) through (i) of this section apply only to contributions made on or after December 18, 1980. Paragraphs (j) through (n) of this section apply to contributions made after December 29, 2022.


(2) *Exception.* Paragraph (h)(4)(ii) of this section applies on and after June 1, 2023.







---

[N] [T.D. 8069, 51 FR 1499, Jan. 14, 1986; 51 FR 5322, Feb. 13, 1986; 51 FR 6219, Feb. 21, 1986, as amended by T.D. 8199, 53 FR 16085, May 5, 1988; T.D. 8540, 59 FR 30105, June 10, 1994; T.D. 8819, 64 FR 23228, Apr. 30, 1999; T.D. 9448, 74 FR 21518, May 7, 2009; T.D. 9836, 83 FR 36422, July 30, 2018; T.D. 9974, 88 FR 37429, June 7, 2023; T.D. 9999, 89 FR 54311, June 28, 2024; 89 FR 70486, Aug. 30, 2024]




