# § 25.91   Requirement for bond.

(a) *General.* Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, every person intending to commence the business of a brewer shall file a bond, Form 5130.22, as prescribed in this subpart, covering operations at the brewery, at the time of filing the original Brewer's Notice, Form 5130.10. Every brewer intending to continue the business of a brewer shall, once every 4 years, or as provided in § 25.95, execute and file a new bond, or continuation certificate as provided in § 25.97.


(b) *Conditions of the bond.* The Brewer's Bond, Form 5130.22, will be conditioned upon the brewer faithfully complying with all provisions of law and regulations relating to the activities covered by the bond, and upon paying all taxes imposed by 26 U.S.C. Chapter 51 and all interest and penalties incurred or fines imposed for violations of those provisions.


(c) *Additional information.* The appropriate TTB officer shall require, in connection with any brewer's bond, a statement executed under the penalties of perjury, as to whether the principal or any person owning, controlling, or actively participating in the management of the business of the principal has been convicted of or has compromised any offense set forth in § 25.101(a)(1), or has been convicted of any offense set forth in § 25.101(a)(2). In the event the above statement contains an affirmative answer, the applicant shall submit a statement describing in detail the circumstances surrounding the conviction or compromise.


(d) *Bond required before beginning business.* A person may not begin business or continue business as a brewer until first receiving notice that the appropriate TTB officer has approved the bond, continuation certificate, or consent of surety, as required by this part.


(e) *Bond exemption.* A brewer who pays tax on a deferred basis under § 25.164 is not required to provide a bond to cover operations and withdrawals of beer during any portion of a calendar year for which the brewer is eligible to use an annual or quarterly return period under § 25.164(c)(2) or (c)(3). A brewer is considered to be paying tax on a deferred basis for purposes of the preceding sentence even if the brewer does not pay tax during every return period as long as the brewer intends to pay tax in a future period. See §§ 25.62 and 25.79 for rules governing applying for this bond exemption. See § 25.95 for rules governing when an existing brewer who has not provided a bond under this paragraph must obtain bond coverage.





---

[N] [T.D. ATF-224, 51 FR 7673, Mar. 5, 1986, as amended by T.D. ATF-437, 66 FR 5479, Jan. 19, 2001; T.D. TTB-146, 82 FR 1127, Jan. 4, 2017]




