# § 3834.11   Which fees must I pay to maintain a mining claim or site and when do I pay them?

(a) *All mining claims or sites (except oil shale placer claims).* Paying the maintenance fee(s) in lieu of performing assessment work satisfies the requirements of the mining law and FLPMA. See § 3830.21 for fee amounts. 


(1) *Location fee and initial maintenance fee.* When you first record a mining claim or site with BLM, you must pay a location fee and an initial maintenance fee for the assessment year in which you located the mining claim or site. 


(2) *Annual maintenance fee.* You must pay an annual maintenance fee on or before September 1st of each year in order to maintain a mining claim or site for the upcoming assessment year. 


(b) *Oil shale placer claims.* (1) Under the Energy Policy Act of 1992, 30 U.S.C. 242, if you own an oil shale placer claim, you must pay an annual $550 fee and file a notice of intent to hold, with the applicable service charge, each calendar year on or before December 30— 


(i) If you elected to maintain an oil shale placer claim; 


(ii) If you elected to apply for limited patent; or 


(iii) If you filed a patent application for an oil shale placer claim but did not receive a first half final certificate on or before October 24, 1992. 


(2) See part 3835 of this chapter for notice of intent to hold requirements, and the table of fees and service charges in § 3830.21 of this chapter. 


(3) You need not pay the annual $550 fee, or file a notice of intent to hold, if you filed a patent application and received a first half of the mineral entry final certificate on or before October 24, 1992. 




