# § 485.645   Special requirements for CAH providers of long-term care services (“swing-beds”)

A CAH must meet the following requirements in order to be granted an approval from CMS to provide post-CAH SNF care, as specified in § 409.30 of this chapter, and to be paid for SNF-level services, in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.


(a) *Eligibility.* A CAH must meet the following eligibility requirements:


(1) The facility has been certified as a CAH by CMS under § 485.606(b) of this subpart; and


(2) The facility provides not more than 25 inpatient beds. Any bed of a unit of the facility that is licensed as a distinct-part SNF at the time the facility applies to the State for designation as a CAH is not counted under paragraph (a) of this section.


(b) *Facilities participating as rural primary care hospitals (RPCHs) on September 30, 1997.* These facilities must meet the following requirements:


(1) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, a CAH that participated in Medicare as a RPCH on September 30, 1997, and on that date had in effect an approval from CMS to use its inpatient facilities to provide post-hospital SNF care may continue in that status under the same terms, conditions and limitations that were applicable at the time those approvals were granted.


(2) A CAH that was granted swing-bed approval under paragraph (b)(1) of this section may request that its application to be a CAH and swing-bed provider be reevaluated under paragraph (a) of this section. If this request is approved, the approval is effective not earlier than October 1, 1997. As of the date of approval, the CAH no longer has any status under paragraph (b)(1) of this section and may not request reinstatement under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(c) *Payment.* Payment for inpatient RPCH services to a CAH that has qualified as a CAH under the provisions in paragraph (a) of this section is made in accordance with § 413.70 of this chapter. Payment for post-hospital SNF-level of care services is made in accordance with the payment provisions in § 413.114 of this chapter.


(d) *SNF services.* The CAH is substantially in compliance with the following SNF requirements contained in subpart B of part 483 of this chapter:


(1) Resident rights (§ 483.10(b)(7), (c)(1), (c)(2)(iii), (c)(6), (d), (e)(2) and (4), (f)(4)(ii) and (iii), (g)(8) and (17), (g)(18) introductory text, and (h) of this chapter).


(2) Admission, transfer, and discharge rights (§ 483.5 definition of transfer & discharge, § 483.15(c)(1), (c)(2), (c)(3), (c)(4), (c)(5), (c)(7), (c)(8), and (c)(9) of this chapter).


(3) Freedom from abuse, neglect and exploitation (§ 483.12(a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3)(i), (a)(3)(ii), (a)(4), (b)(1), (b)(2), (c)(1), (c)(2), (c)(3), and (c)(4) of this chapter).


(4) Social services (§ 483.40(d) of this chapter).


(5) Comprehensive assessment, comprehensive care plan, and discharge planning (§ 483.20(b), and § 483.21(b) and (c)(2) of this chapter), except that the CAH is not required to use the resident assessment instrument (RAI) specified by the State that is required under § 483.20(b), or to comply with the requirements for frequency, scope, and number of assessments prescribed in § 413.343(b) of this chapter).


(6) Specialized rehabilitative services (§ 483.65 of this chapter).


(7) Dental services (§ 483.55(a)(2), (3), (4), and (5) and (b) of this chapter).


(8) Nutrition (§ 483.25(g)(1) and (g)(2) of this chapter).



---

[N] [63 FR 26359, May 12, 1998, as amended at 64 FR 41544, July 30, 1999; 67 FR 50120, Aug. 1, 2002; 69 FR 49272, Aug. 11, 2004; 81 FR 68871, Oct. 4, 2016; 82 FR 32260, July 13, 2017; 84 FR 51828, Sept. 30, 2019]




