# § 1.280F-3T   Limitations on recovery deductions and the investment tax credit when the business use percentage of listed property is not greater than 50 percent (temporary).

(a) *In general.* Section 280F(b), generally, imposes limitations with respect to the amount allowable as an investment tax credit under section 46(a) and the amount allowable as a recovery deduction under section 168 in the case of listed property (as defined in § 1.280F-6(b)) if certain business use of the property (referred to as “qualified business use”) does not exceed 50 percent during a taxable year. *Qualified business use* generally means use in a trade or business, rather than use in an investment or other activity conducted for the production of income within the meaning of section 212. See § 1.280F-6(d) for the distinction between “business/ investment use” and “qualified business use.”


(b) *Limitation on the amount of investment tax credit*—(1) *Denial of investment tax credit when business use percentage not greater than 50 percent.* Listed property is not treated as section 38 property to any extent unless the business use percentage (as defined in section 280F(d)(6) and § 1.280F-6(d)(1)) is greater than 50 percent. For example, if a taxpayer uses listed property in a trade or business in the taxable year in which it is placed in service, but the business use percentage is not greater than 50 percent, no investment tax credit is allowed for that listed property. If, in the taxable year in which listed property is placed in service, the only business/investment use (as defined in § 1.280F-6(d)(3)) of that property is qualified business use (as defined in § 1.280F-6(d)(2)(i)), and the business use percentage is 55 percent, the investment tax credit is allowed for the 55 percent of the listed property that is treated as section 38 property. The credit allowed is unaffected by any increase in the business use percentage in a subsequent taxable year.


(2) *Recapture of investment tax credit.* Listed property ceases to be section 38 property to the extent that the business/investment use (as defined in § 1.280F-6(d)(3)) for any taxable year is less than the business/investment use for the taxable year in which the property is placed in service. *See* § 1.47-2(c). If the business use percentage (as defined in § 1.280F-6(d)(1)) of listed property is greater than 50 percent for the taxable year in which the property is placed in service, and less than or equal to 50 percent for any subsequent taxable year, that property ceases to be section 38 property in its entirety in that subsequent taxable year. Under § 1.47-1(c)(1)(ii)(*b*), the property (or a portion thereof) is treated as ceasing to be section 38 property on the first day of the taxable year in which the cessation occurs. 


(c) *Limitation on the method of cost recovery under section 168 when business use of property not greater than 50 percent*—(1) *Year of acquisition.* If any listed property (as defined in § 1.280F-6(b)) is not predominantly used in a qualified business use (as defined in § 1.280F-6(d)(4)) in the year it is acquired, the recovery deductions allowed under section 168 for the property for that taxable year and for succeeding taxable years are to be determined using the straight line method over its earnings and profits life (as defined in paragraph (f) of this section). Additionally, the taxpayer is not entitled to make any election under section 179 with respect to the property for that year. 


(2) *Subsequent years.* If any listed property is not subject to paragraph (c)(1) of this section because such property is predominantly used in a qualified business use (as defined in § 1.280F-6(d)(4)) during the year it is acquired but is not predominantly used in a qualified business use during a subsequent taxable year, the rules of this paragraph (c)(2) apply. In such a case, the taxpayer must determine the recovery deductions allowed under section 168 for the taxable year that the listed property is not predominantly used in a qualified business use and for any subsequent taxable year as if such property was not predominantly used in a qualified business use in the year in which it was acquired and there had been no section 179 election with respect to the property. Thus, the recovery deductions allowable under section 168 for the remaining taxable years are computed by determining the applicable recovery percentage that would apply if the taxpayer had used the straight line method over the property's earnings and profits life beginning with the year the property was placed in service. 


(3) *Effect of rule on recovery property that is not listed property.* The mandatory use of the straight line method over the property's earnings and profits life under paragraphs (d) (1) and (2) of this section does not have any effect on the proper method of cost recovery for other recovery property of that same class placed in service in the same taxable year by the taxpayer and does not constitute an election to use an optional recovery period under section 168(b)(3). 


(d) *Recapture of excess recovery deductions claimed*—(1) *In general.* If paragraph (c)(2) of this section is applicable, any excess depreciation (as defined in paragraph (d)(2) of this section) must be included in the taxpayer's gross income and added to the property's adjusted basis for the first taxable year in which the property is not predominantly used in a qualified business use (as defined in § 1.280F-6(d)(4)). 


(2) *Definition of excess depreciation.* For purposes of this section, the term *excess depreciation* means the excess (if any) of: 


(i) The amount of the recovery deductions allowable with respect to the property for taxable years before the first taxable year in which the property was not predominantly used in a qualified business use, over 


(ii) The amount of the recovery deductions which would have been allowable for those years if the property had not been predominantly used in a qualified business use for the year it was acquired and there had been no section 179 election with respect to the property.


(3) *Recordkeeping requirement.* A taxpayer must be able to substantiate the use of any listed property, as prescribed in section 274(d)(4) and § 1.274-5T or § 1.274-6T, for any taxable year for which recapture under section 280F(b)(3) and paragraph (d) (1) and (2) of this section may occur even if the taxpayer has fully depreciated (or expensed) the listed property in a prior year. For example, in the case of 3-year recovery property, the taxpayer shall maintain a log, journal, etc. for six years even though the taxpayer fully depreciated the property in the first three years. 


(e) *Earnings and profits life*—(1) *Definition.* The earnings and profits life with respect to any listed property is generally the following: 


(2) *Applicable recovery percentages.* If the applicable recovery period is determined pursuant to the table prescribed in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the applicable recovery percentage is: 


(i) For property other than 18-year real property or low-income housing: 


(ii) For 18-year real property: [Reserved]


(iii) For low-income housing: [Reserved]


(f) *Examples.* The provisions of this section may be illustrated by the following examples. For purposes of these examples, assume that all taxpayers use the calendar year and that no short taxable years are involved.



---

[N] [T.D. 7986, 49 FR 42707, Oct. 24, 1984, as amended by T.D. 8061, 50 FR 46038, Nov. 6, 1985; T.D. 9133, 69 FR 35514, June 25, 2004]




