# § 62.14775a   What authorities are withheld by the EPA Administrator?

The following authorities are withheld by the EPA Administrator and not transferred to the state or tribe:


(a) Approval of alternatives to the emission limitations in tables 4 through 7 to this subpart and operating limits established under § 62.14605a and table 1 to this subpart.


(b) Approval of petitions submitted pursuant to the requirements of § 62.14610a establishing operating parameters when using controls other than a wet scrubber, fabric filter, activated carbon injection, selective noncatalytic reduction, or a dry scrubber to comply with the emission limitations in tables 4 through 7 to this subpart.


(c) Approval of major alternatives to test methods established under § 62.14615a and tables 4 through 7 to this subpart.


(d) Approval of major alternatives to monitoring requirements established under §§ 62.14665a and 62.14575a and table 1 to this subpart.


(e) Approval of major alternatives to recordkeeping and reporting requirements of this subpart.


(f) Approval of an alternative to any electronic reporting to the EPA required by this subpart.


(g) Approval of requests submitted pursuant to the requirements in § 62.14595a(b)(2).


(h) Approval of alternative opacity emission limits in § 62.14600a under § 60.11(e)(6) through (8) of this chapter.


(i) Performance test and data reduction waivers under § 62.14615a(j) and § 60.8(b)(4) and (5) of this chapter.


(j) Determination of whether a qualifying small power production facility or cogeneration facility under § 62.14530a(d) or (e) is combusting homogeneous waste.




