# ยง 582.330   Nondiscrimination and equal opportunity requirements.

(a) *General.* Recipients may establish a preference as part of their admissions procedures for one or more of the statutorily targeted populations (*i.e.,* seriously mentally ill, alcohol or substance abusers, or persons with AIDS and related diseases). However, other eligible disabled homeless persons must be considered for housing designed for the target population unless the recipient can demonstrate that there is sufficient demand by the target population for the units, and other eligible disabled homeless persons would not benefit from the primary supportive services provided.


(b) *Compliance with requirements.* (1) In addition to the nondiscrimination and equal opportunity requirements set forth in 24 CFR part 5, recipients serving a designated population of homeless persons must, within the designated population, comply with the prohibitions against discrimination against handicapped individuals under section 503 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794) and implementing regulations at 41 CFR chapter 60-741. 


(2) The nondiscrimination and equal opportunity requirements set forth at part 5 of this title are modified as follows: 


(i) The Indian Civil Rights Act (25 U.S.C. 1301 *et seq.*) applies to tribes when they exercise their powers of self-government, and to IHAs when established by the exercise of such powers. When an IHA is established under State law, the applicability of the Indian Civil Rights Act will be determined on a case-by-case basis. Projects subject to the Indian Civil Rights Act must be developed and operated in compliance with its provisions and all implementing HUD requirements, instead of title VI and the Fair Housing Act and their implementing regulations. 


(ii) [Reserved] 


(c) *Affirmative outreach.* (1) If the procedures that the recipient intends to use to make known the availability of the program are unlikely to reach persons of any particular race, color, religion, sex, age, national origin, familial status, or handicap who may qualify for assistance, the recipient must establish additional procedures that will ensure that interested persons can obtain information concerning the assistance.


(2) The recipient must adopt procedures to make available information on the existence and locations of facilities and services that are accessible to persons with a handicap and maintain evidence of implementation of the procedures.


(d) The accessibility requirements, reasonable modification, and accommodation requirements of the Fair Housing Act and of section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.



---

[N] [58 FR 13892, Mar. 15, 1993, as amended at 61 FR 5210, Feb. 9, 1996]




