# § 300.602   State use of targets and reporting.

(a) *General.* Each State must use the targets established in the State's performance plan under § 300.601 and the priority areas described in § 300.600(d) to analyze the performance of each LEA.


(b) *Public reporting and privacy*—(1) *Public report.*

(i) Subject to paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, the State must—


(A) Report annually to the public on the performance of each LEA located in the State on the targets in the State's performance plan as soon as practicable but no later than 120 days following the State's submission of its annual performance report to the Secretary under paragraph (b)(2) of this section; and


(B) Make each of the following items available through public means: the State's performance plan, under § 300.601(a); annual performance reports, under paragraph (b)(2) of this section; and the State's annual reports on the performance of each LEA located in the State, under paragraph (b)(1)(i)(A) of this section. In doing so, the State must, at a minimum, post the plan and reports on the SEA's Web site, and distribute the plan and reports to the media and through public agencies. 


(ii) If the State, in meeting the requirements of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, collects performance data through State monitoring or sampling, the State must include in its report under paragraph (b)(1)(i)(A) of this section the most recently available performance data on each LEA, and the date the data were obtained.


(2) *State performance report.* The State must report annually to the Secretary on the performance of the State under the State's performance plan.


(3) *Privacy.* The State must not report to the public or the Secretary any information on performance that would result in the disclosure of personally identifiable information about individual children, or where the available data are insufficient to yield statistically reliable information.



---

[N] [71 FR 46753, Aug. 14, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 73027, Dec. 1, 2008]




