# § 512.565   Sharing arrangements.

(a) *General.* (1) A TEAM participant may enter into a sharing arrangement with a TEAM collaborator to make a gainsharing payment, or to receive an alignment payment, or both. A TEAM participant must not make a gainsharing payment to a TEAM collaborator or receive an alignment payment from a TEAM collaborator except in accordance with a sharing arrangement.


(2) A sharing arrangement must comply with the provisions of this section and all other applicable laws and regulations, including the applicable fraud and abuse laws and all applicable payment and coverage requirements.


(3) TEAM participants must develop, maintain, and use a set of written policies for selecting individuals and entities to be TEAM collaborators.


(i) These policies must contain criteria related to, and inclusive of, the quality of care delivered by the potential TEAM collaborator and the provision of TEAM activities.


(ii) The selection criteria cannot be based directly or indirectly on the volume or value of past or anticipated referrals or business otherwise generated by, between or among the TEAM participant, any TEAM collaborator, any collaboration agent, any downstream collaboration agent, or any individual or entity affiliated with a TEAM participant, TEAM collaborator, collaboration agent, or downstream collaboration agent.


(iii) A selection criterion that considers whether a potential TEAM collaborator has performed a reasonable minimum number of services that would qualify as TEAM activities, as determined by the TEAM participant, will be deemed not to violate the volume or value standard if the purpose of the criterion is to ensure the quality of care furnished to TEAM beneficiaries.


(4) If a TEAM participant enters into a sharing arrangement, its compliance program must include oversight of sharing arrangements and compliance with the applicable requirements of TEAM.


(b) *Requirements.* (1) A sharing arrangement must be in writing and signed by the parties, and entered into before care is furnished to TEAM beneficiaries under the sharing arrangement.


(2) Participation in a sharing arrangement must be voluntary and without penalty for nonparticipation.


(3) The sharing arrangement must require the TEAM collaborator and its employees, contractors (including collaboration agents), and subcontractors (including downstream collaboration agents) to comply with all of the following:


(i) The applicable provisions of this part (including requirements regarding beneficiary notifications, access to records, record retention, and participation in any evaluation, monitoring, compliance, and enforcement activities performed by CMS or its designees).


(ii) All applicable Medicare provider enrollment requirements at § 424.500 of this chapter, including having a valid and active TIN or NPI, during the term of the sharing arrangement.


(iii) All other applicable laws and regulations.


(4) The sharing arrangement must require the TEAM collaborator to have or be covered by a compliance program that includes oversight of the sharing arrangement and compliance with the requirements of TEAM that apply to its role as a TEAM collaborator, including any distribution arrangements.


(5) The sharing arrangement must not pose a risk to beneficiary access, beneficiary freedom of choice, or quality of care.


(6) The board or other governing body of the TEAM participant must have responsibility for overseeing the TEAM participant's participation in TEAM, its arrangements with TEAM collaborators, its payment of gainsharing payments, its receipt of alignment payments, and its use of beneficiary incentives in TEAM.


(7) The specifics of the agreement must be documented in writing and must be made available to CMS upon request (as outlined in § 512.590).


(8) The sharing arrangement must specify the following:


(i) The purpose and scope of the sharing arrangement.


(ii) The obligations of the parties, including specified TEAM activities and other services to be performed by the parties under the sharing arrangement.


(iii) The date range for which the sharing arrangement is effective.


(iv) The financial or economic terms for payment, including the following:


(A) Eligibility criteria for a gainsharing payment.


(B) Eligibility criteria for an alignment payment.


(C) Frequency of gainsharing or alignment payments.


(D) Methodology and accounting formula for determining the amount of a gainsharing payment or alignment payment.


(9) The sharing arrangement must not—


(i) Induce the TEAM participant, TEAM collaborator, or any employees, contractors, or subcontractors of the TEAM participant or TEAM collaborator to reduce or limit medically necessary services to any Medicare beneficiary; or


(ii) Restrict the ability of a TEAM collaborator to make decisions in the best interests of its patients, including the selection of devices, supplies, and treatments.


(c) *Gainsharing payment, alignment payment, and internal cost savings conditions and restrictions.* (1) Gainsharing payments, if any, must—


(i) Be derived solely from reconciliation payment amounts, or internal cost savings, or both;


(ii) Be distributed on an annual basis (not more than once per calendar year);


(iii) Not be a loan, advance payment, or payment for referrals or other business; and


(iv) Be clearly identified as a gainsharing payment at the time it is paid.


(2)(i) To be eligible to receive a gainsharing payment, a TEAM collaborator must meet quality of care criteria for the performance year for which the TEAM participant accrued the internal cost savings or earned the reconciliation payment that comprises the gainsharing payment. The quality-of-care criteria must be established by the TEAM participant and directly relate to the episode.


(ii) To be eligible to receive a gainsharing payment, or to be required to make an alignment payment, a TEAM collaborator other than ACO, PGP, NPPGP, or TGP must have directly furnished a billable item or service to a TEAM beneficiary during an episode that was attributed to the same performance year for which the TEAM participant accrued the internal cost savings or earned the reconciliation payment amount or repayment amount that comprises the gainsharing payment or the alignment payment.


(iii) To be eligible to receive a gainsharing payment, or to be required to make an alignment payment, a TEAM collaborator that is a PGP, NPPGP, or TGP must meet the following criteria:


(A) The PGP, NPPGP, or TGP must have billed for an item or service that was rendered by one or more PGP member, NPPGP member, or TGP member respectively to a TEAM beneficiary during an episode that was attributed to the same performance year for which the TEAM participant accrued the internal cost savings or earned the reconciliation payment amount or repayment amount that comprises the gainsharing payment or the alignment payment.


(B) The PGP, NPPGP, or TGP must have contributed to TEAM activities and been clinically involved in the care of TEAM beneficiaries during the same performance year for which the TEAM participant accrued the internal cost savings or earned the reconciliation payment amount or repayment amount that comprises the gainsharing payment or the alignment payment. A non-exhaustive list of examples where, a PGP, NPPGP, or TGP might have been clinically involved in the care of TEAM beneficiaries includes—


(*1*) Providing care coordination services to TEAM beneficiaries during or after inpatient admission;


(*2*) Engaging with a TEAM participant in care redesign strategies, and performing a role in implementing such strategies, that are designed to improve the quality of care for episodes and reduce episode spending; or


(*3*) In coordination with other providers and suppliers (such as PGP members, NPPGP members, or TGP members; the TEAM participant; and post-acute care providers), implementing strategies designed to address and manage the comorbidities of TEAM beneficiaries.


(iv) To be eligible to receive a gainsharing payment, or to be required to make an alignment payment, a TEAM collaborator that is an ACO must meet the following criteria:


(A) The ACO must have had an ACO provider/supplier that directly furnished, or an ACO participant that billed for, an item or service that was rendered to a TEAM beneficiary during an episode that was attributed to the same performance year for which the TEAM participant accrued the internal cost savings or earned the reconciliation payment amount or repayment amount that comprises the gainsharing payment or the alignment payment; and


(B) The ACO must have contributed to TEAM activities and been clinically involved in the care of TEAM beneficiaries during the performance year for which the TEAM participant accrued the internal cost savings or earned the reconciliation payment amount or repayment amount that comprises the gainsharing payment or the alignment payment. A non-exhaustive list of ways in which an ACO might have been clinically involved in the care of TEAM beneficiaries could include—


(*1*) Providing care coordination services to TEAM beneficiaries during and/or after inpatient admission;


(*2*) Engaging with a TEAM participant in care redesign strategies and performing a role in implementing such strategies that are designed to improve the quality of care and reduce spending for episodes; or


(*3*) In coordination with providers and suppliers (such as ACO participants, ACO providers/suppliers, the TEAM participant, and post-acute care providers), implementing strategies designed to address and manage the comorbidities of TEAM beneficiaries.


(3) The methodology for accruing, calculating and verifying internal cost savings will be determined by the TEAM participant. The methodology—


(i) Must be transparent, measurable, and verifiable in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and Government Auditing Standards (The Yellow Book).


(ii) Used to calculate internal cost savings must reflect the actual, internal cost savings achieved by the TEAM participant through the documented implementation of TEAM activities identified by the TEAM participant and must exclude—


(A) Any savings realized by any individual or entity that is not the TEAM participant; and


(B) “Paper” savings from accounting conventions or past investment in fixed costs.


(4) The amount of any gainsharing payments must be determined in accordance with a methodology that is based solely on quality of care and the provision of TEAM activities. The methodology may take into account the amount of TEAM activities provided by a TEAM collaborator relative to other TEAM collaborators.


(5) For a performance year, the aggregate amount of all gainsharing payments that are derived from reconciliation payment amounts must not exceed the amount of that year's reconciliation payment amount.


(6) No entity or individual, whether a party to a sharing arrangement or not, may condition the opportunity to make or receive gainsharing payments or to make or receive alignment payments directly or indirectly on the volume or value of past or anticipated referrals or business otherwise generated by, between or among the TEAM participant, any TEAM collaborator, any collaboration agent, any downstream collaboration agent, or any individual or entity affiliated with a TEAM participant, TEAM collaborator, collaboration agent, or downstream collaboration agent.


(7) A TEAM participant must not make a gainsharing payment to a TEAM collaborator if CMS has notified the TEAM participant that such TEAM collaborator is subject to any action by CMS, HHS or any other governmental entity, or its designees, for noncompliance with this part or the fraud and abuse laws, for the provision of substandard care to TEAM beneficiaries or other integrity problems, or for any other program integrity problems or noncompliance with any other laws or regulations.


(8) The sharing arrangement must require the TEAM participant to recoup any gainsharing payment that contained funds derived from a CMS overpayment on a reconciliation payment amount or was based on the submission of false or fraudulent data.


(9) Alignment payments from a TEAM collaborator to a TEAM participant may be made at any interval that is agreed upon by both parties, and must not be—


(i) Issued, distributed, or paid prior to the calculation by CMS of a repayment amount; payment;


(ii) Loans, advance payments, or payments for referrals or other business; or


(iii) Assessed by a TEAM participant in the absence of a repayment amount.


(10) The TEAM participant must not receive any amounts under a sharing arrangement from a TEAM collaborator that are not alignment payments.


(11) For a performance year, the aggregate amount of all alignment payments received by the TEAM participant must not exceed 50 percent of the TEAM participant's repayment amount.


(12) The aggregate amount of all alignment payments from a TEAM collaborator to the TEAM participant may not be greater than—


(i) With respect to a TEAM collaborator other than an ACO, 25 percent of the TEAM participant's repayment amount.


(ii) With respect to a TEAM collaborator that is an ACO, 50 percent of the TEAM participant's repayment amount.


(13) The amount of any alignment payments must be determined in accordance with a methodology that does not directly account for the volume or value of past or anticipated referrals or business otherwise generated by, between or among the TEAM participant, any TEAM collaborator, any collaboration agent, any downstream collaboration agent, or any individual or entity affiliated with a TEAM participant, TEAM collaborator, collaboration agent, or downstream collaboration agent.


(14) All gainsharing payments and any alignment payments must be administered by the TEAM participant in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and Government Auditing Standards (The Yellow Book).


(15) All gainsharing payments and alignment payments must be made by check, electronic funds transfer, or another traceable cash transaction.


(d) *Documentation requirements.* (1) TEAM participants must—


(i) Document the sharing arrangement contemporaneously with the establishment of the arrangement;


(ii) Publicly post (and update on at least a quarterly basis) on a web page on the TEAM participant's website—


(A) Accurate lists of all current TEAM collaborators, including the TEAM collaborators' names and addresses as well as accurate historical lists of all TEAM collaborators.


(B) Written policies for selecting individuals and entities to be TEAM collaborators as required by § 512.565(a)(3).


(iii) Maintain, and require each TEAM collaborator to maintain, contemporaneous documentation with respect to the payment or receipt of any gainsharing payment or alignment payment that includes, at a minimum—


(A) Nature of the payment (gainsharing payment or alignment payment);


(B) Identity of the parties making and receiving the payment;


(C) Date of the payment;


(D) Amount of the payment; and


(E) Date and amount of any recoupment of all or a portion of a TEAM collaborator's gainsharing payment.


(F) Explanation for each recoupment, such as whether the TEAM collaborator received a gainsharing payment that contained funds derived from a CMS overpayment of a reconciliation payment or was based on the submission of false or fraudulent data.


(2) The TEAM participant must keep records of all of the following:


(i) Its process for determining and verifying its potential and current TEAM collaborators' eligibility to participate in Medicare.


(ii) Its plan to track internal cost savings.


(iii) Information on the accounting systems used to track internal cost savings.


(iv) A description of current health information technology, including systems to track reconciliation payment amounts, repayment amounts, and internal cost savings.


(v) Its plan to track gainsharing payments and alignment payments.


(3) The TEAM participant must retain and provide access to and must require each TEAM collaborator to retain and provide access to, the required documentation in accordance with § 512.586.






