# § 501.706   Prepenalty Notice; issuance by Director.

(a) *When required.* If the Director has reason to believe there has occurred a violation of any provision of parts 500 or 515 of this chapter or a violation of the provisions of any license, ruling, regulation, order, direction or instruction issued by or pursuant to the direction or authorization of the Secretary pursuant to parts 500 or 515 of this chapter or otherwise under the Trading With the Enemy Act, and the Director determines that further civil proceedings are warranted, the Director shall issue a Prepenalty Notice. The Prepenalty Notice may be issued whether or not another agency has taken any action with respect to the matter.


(b) *Contents of notice*—(1) *Facts of violation.* The Prepenalty Notice shall describe the alleged violation, specify the laws and regulations allegedly violated, and state the amount of the proposed monetary penalty.


(2) *Right to respond.* The Prepenalty Notice shall inform the respondent of respondent's right to make a written presentation within the time prescribed in § 501.707 as to why the respondent believes there should be no finding of a violation or why, if the respondent admits the violation, a monetary penalty should not be imposed or why, if imposed, the monetary penalty should be in a lesser amount than proposed. The Prepenalty Notice shall also inform the respondent that:


(i) The act of submitting a written response by the respondent is a factor that may result in a lower penalty absent any aggravating factors; and


(ii) If the respondent fails to respond to the Prepenalty Notice within the applicable 60-day period set forth in § 501.707, the Director may proceed with the issuance of a Penalty Notice.


(3) *Right to request a hearing.* The Prepenalty Notice shall inform the respondent of respondent's right, if a subsequent Penalty Notice is issued, to request an administrative hearing. The Director will not consider any request for an administrative hearing until a Penalty Notice has been issued.




