# § 148.55   Exemption for articles embodying American trademark or copyright.

(a) *Application of exemption.* An exemption is provided for articles bearing a counterfeit mark (as defined in § 133.21(a) of this chapter) or piratical articles (as defined in § 133.42(a) of this chapter) accompanying any person arriving in the United States which would be prohibited entry under 19 U.S.C. 1526, 15 U.S.C. 1124, or 17 U.S.C. 602. The exemption may be applied either to those piratical articles or to those articles bearing a counterfeit mark that are of foreign manufacture and bear a recorded mark owned by a citizen of, or a corporation or association created or organized within, the United States, when imported for the arriving person's personal use in the quantities provided in paragraph (c) of this section.


(b) *Limitations*—(1) *30-day period.* The exemption in paragraph (a) of this section shall not be granted to any person who has taken advantage of the exemption for the same type of article within the 30-day period immediately prior to his arrival in the United States. The date of the person's last arrival on which he claimed this exemption shall be considered to be the date he last took advantage of the exemption. 


(2) *Sale of exempted articles.* If an article which has been exempted is sold within one year of the date of importation, the article or its value (to be recovered from the importer), is subject to forfeiture. A sale subject to judicial order or in the liquidation of an estate is not subject to the provisions of this paragraph.


(c) *Quantities.* Generally, every 30 days, persons arriving in the United States may apply the exemption to the following: one piratical article of each type, or one article of each type bearing a counterfeit mark, and/or one piratical article of each type that is also an article bearing a counterfeit mark. The Commissioner shall determine if more than one article may be entered and, with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, publish in the _Federal Register_ a list of types of articles and the quantities of each entitled to the exemption. If the owner of a recorded mark or recorded copyright allows importation of more than one article normally prohibited entry under 19 U.S.C. 1526, 15 U.S.C. 1124, or 17 U.S.C. 602, the total of those articles authorized by the owner may be entered without penalty.



---

[N] [T.D. 79-159, 44 FR 31969, June 4, 1979; 44 FR 35208, June 19, 1979, as amended by T.D. 91-77, 56 FR 46115, Sept. 10, 1991; 89 FR 52379, June 24, 2024] 




