# ยง 101.6   Hours of business.

Except as specified in paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section, each CBP office shall be open for the transactions of general CBP business between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 5 p.m. on all days of the year:


(a) *Saturdays, Sundays and national holidays.* In addition to Saturdays, Sundays, and any other calendar day designated as a holiday by Federal statute or Executive Order, CBP offices shall be closed on the following national holidays:


(1) The first day of January.


(2) The third Monday of January. 


(3) The third Monday of February.


(4) The last Monday of May.


(5) The fourth day of July.


(6) The first Monday of September.


(7) The second Monday of October.


(8) The eleventh day of November.


(9) The fourth Thursday of November.


(10) The twenty-fifth day of December.


(b) *Local conditions requiring different hours.* If, because of local conditions, different but equivalent hours are required to maintain adequate service, such hours shall be observed provided the Commissioner of Customs and Border Protection approves them and provided further that a notice of business hours is prominently displayed at the principal entrance and in each public room of the CBP office.


(c) *Fixing of hours.* At each port or station where there is no full-time CBP employee, the port director shall fix the hours during which the CBP office will be open for the transaction of general CBP business. Notice of such hours shall be prominently displayed at the principal entrance of the office.


(d) *State and local holidays.* Each CBP office shall be open for the transaction of business on all State and local holidays occurring on days other than Saturdays, Sundays, and national holidays listed in paragraph (a) of this section. The appropriate principal field officer may excuse any employee(s) without charge to leave when a state or local holiday interferes with the performance of his work in a CBP office.


(e) *Services performed outside a CBP office.* CBP services required to be performed outside a CBP office shall be furnished between the hours of 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. (or between the corresponding hours at ports where different but equivalent hours are required for the maintenance of adequate service) on all days when the CBP office is open for the transaction of general CBP business.


(f) *CBP services not within prescribed hours.* Where there is a regularly recurring need for CBP services outside the hours prescribed in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section and the volume and duration of the required services are uniformly such as to require, of themselves or in immediately consecutive combination with other essential CBP activities of the port, the full time of one or more CBP employees, the necessary number of regular tours of duty to furnish such services on all days of the year except Sundays and national holidays may be established with the approval of the Commissioner of CBP.


(g) *CBP services furnished private interests.* Other than as specified in this section. CBP services shall be furnished private interests only in accordance with the provisions of ยง 24.16 of this chapter.



---

[N] [T.D. 77-241, 42 FR 54937, Oct. 12, 1977, as amended by T.D. 82-145, 47 FR 35478, Aug. 16, 1982; T.D. 95-77, 60 FR 50019, Sept. 27, 1995; CBP Dec. 08-25, 73 FR 40726, July 16, 2008]




