# § 412.336   Transition period payment methodologies.

(a) *General.* For discharges occurring in cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 1991 and before October 1, 2001, a hospital is paid under one of two payment methodologies described in §§ 412.340 and 412.344. Except as provided under paragraph (b) of this section, a hospital is paid under the same methodology throughout the transition period. 


(1) *Hospital-specific rate below the Federal rate.* A hospital with a hospital-specific rate below the Federal rate (after taking into account the estimated effect of the payment adjustments and outlier payments) is paid under the fully prospective payment methodology as described in § 412.340. 


(2) *Hospital-specific rate above the Federal rate.* A hospital with a hospital-specific rate that is above the Federal rate (after taking into account the estimated effect of the payment adjustments and outlier payments) is paid under the hold-harmless payment methodology as described in § 412.344. 


(b) *Special rule for revised hospital-specific rate.* If a hospital with a hospital-specific rate below the Federal rate requests that its hospital-specific rate be redetermined, the redetermined hospital-specific rate is compared to the Federal rate that is applicable to the new base period (after taking into account the estimated effect of the payment adjustments and outlier payments). If the redetermined hospital-specific rate is higher than the Federal rate, the hospital is paid under the hold-harmless methodology effective with the beginning of the new base period and continuing throughout the remainder of the transition. 


(c) *Interim and final determinations of applicable payment methodology*—(1) *Interim determination.* The intermediary makes an interim determination of the applicable payment methodology based on the best data available and notifies the hospital of its determination at least 30 days before the beginning of the hospital's first cost reporting period beginning on or after October 1, 1991. 


(2) *Final determination.* (i) The intermediary makes a final determination of the applicable payment methodology based on its final determination of the hospital's hospital-specific rate. The final determination of the applicable payment methodology is effective retroactively to the beginning of the hospital's first cost reporting period beginning on or after October 1, 1991.


(ii) If the hospital-specific rate is redetermined in accordance with § 412.328(f), the intermediary makes a new determination of the applicable payment methodology. The new determination is effective retroactively to the beginning of the new base period.


(iii) If the hospital-specific rate is revised under § 412.328(g) as a result of administrative or judicial review, the intermediary makes a new determination of the applicable payment methodology. The new determination is effective retroactively to the beginning of the hospital's first cost reporting period beginning on or after October 1, 1991 or to the beginning of the new base period.


(d) *Special Rule for Redetermination of Hospital Payment Methodology.* For cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 1993, the intermediary redetermines the hospital payment methodologies to take into account the reduction to the standard Federal rate provided in § 412.308(b)(2):


(1) For a hospital paid under the fully prospective payment methodology in the last hospital cost reporting period beginning before October 1, 1993, the intermediary compares the hospital's FY 1994 hospital-specific rate with the hospital's FY 1994 Federal rate (after taking into account the estimated effect of the payment adjustments and outlier payments). 


(i) A hospital with a FY 1994 hospital-specific rate that is above the FY 1994 adjusted Federal rate is paid under the hold-harmless payment methodology described in § 412.344. 


(ii) Subject to the provisions of § 412.328(f), a hospital with a FY 1994 hospital-specific rate that is below the FY 1994 adjusted Federal rate continues to be paid under the fully prospective payment methodology as described in § 412.340.


(iii) The intermediary notifies the hospital of the new determination of the hospital's payment methodology within 90 days of the hospital's first cost reporting period beginning on or after October 1, 1993. The new determination is effective to the beginning of the hospital's first cost reporting period beginning on or after October 1, 1993.


(2) A hospital paid under the hold-harmless payment methodology in the last cost reporting period beginning before October 1, 1993, will continue to be paid in accordance with the provisions of § 412.344.



---

[N] [56 FR 43449, Aug. 30, 1991; 57 FR 3017, Jan. 27, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 46340, Sept. 1, 1993] 




