# § 130.4   Hourly rate and minimum user fees.

(a) *Services subject to hourly rate user fees.* User fees for import- or export-related veterinary services listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (18) of this section, except those services covered by flat rate user fees, will be calculated at the hourly rate found online at *www.aphis.usda.gov/business-services/vs-fees,* for each employee required to perform the service. The person for whom the service is provided and the person requesting the service are jointly and severally liable for payment of these user fees in accordance with §§ 130.6 and 130.7.


(1) Providing services to live animals for import or entry at airports, ocean ports, and rail ports.


(2) Conducting inspections, including inspections of laboratories and facilities (such as biosecurity level two facilities), required either to obtain import permits for animal products and byproducts, aquaculture products, or organisms or vectors, or to maintain compliance with import permits. This hourly rate does not apply to inspection and approval of import/export facilities and establishments.


(3) Obtaining samples required to be tested, either to obtain import permits or to ensure compliance with import permits.


(4) Providing services for imported birds or ratites that are not subject to quarantine, such as monitoring birds—including but not limited to pet birds—between flights.


(5) Supervising the opening of in-bond shipments.


(6) Providing services for in-bond or in-transit animals to exit the United States.


(7) Inspecting an export isolation facility and the animals in it.


(8) Supervising animal or bird rest periods prior to export.


(9) Supervising loading and unloading of animals or birds for export shipment.


(10) Inspecting means of conveyance used to export animals or birds.


(11) Conducting inspections under part 156 of this chapter.


(12) Inspecting and approving an artificial insemination center or a semen collection center or the animals in it.


(13) Import or entry services for feeder animals including, but not limited to, feeder goats and feeder bison not covered by a flat rate user fee in connection with activities described in § 130.3(d).


(14) Export-related bird banding for identification.


(15) Export-related inspection and approval of pet food facilities, including laboratories that perform pet food testing.


(16) Export-related services provided at animal auctions.


(17) Various export-related facility inspections, including, but not limited to, fertilizer plants that utilize poultry waste, rendering plants, and potential embarkation facilities.


(18) Providing other import-or export-related veterinary services for which no flat rate user fee is specified.


(b) *When do I pay an additional amount for employee(s) working overtime?* You must pay an additional amount if you need an APHIS employee to work on a Sunday, on a holiday, or at any time outside the normal tour of duty of that employee. Instead of paying the hourly rate user fee, you pay the rate found online at *www.aphis.usda.gov/business-services/vs-fees* for each employee needed to get the work done.


