# § 9.58   Carmel Valley.

(a) *Name.* The name of the viticultural area described in this section is “Carmel Valley.”


(b) *Approved maps.* The approved maps for determining the boundary of the Carmel Valley viticultural area are five U.S.G.S. topographic maps in the 7.5 minute series, as follows:


(1) Mt. Carmel, Calif., dated 1956;


(2) Carmel Valley, Calif., dated 1956;


(3) Ventana Cones, Calif., dated 1956;


(4) Chews Ridge, Calif., dated 1956; and


(5) Rana Creek, Calif., dated 1956.


(c) *Boundary.* The Carmel Valley viticultural area is located in Monterey County, California. The boundary is as follows:


(1) The beginning point is the northeast corner of Section 5 in Township 17 South, Range 2 East.


(2) The boundary follows the Los Laurelles Land Grant boundary south, then easterly, to the north-south section line dividing Section 9 from Section 10 in Township 17 South, Range 2 East.


(3) The boundary follows this section line south to the southwest corner of Section 22 in Township 17 South, Range 2 East.


(4) From this point, the boundary follows section lines in Township 17 South, Range 2 East:


(i) To the southeast corner of Section 22,


(ii) To the southwest corner of Section 26,


(iii) To the southeast corner of Section 26,


(iv) To the southwest corner of Section 36.


(5) From this point, the boundary follows the Los Padres National Forest boundary east, then south, then east to the southwest corner of Section 9 in Township 18 South, Range 3 East.


(6) The boundary follows the section line east to the southeast corner of the same section, where the section line rejoins the Los Padres National Forest boundary.


(7) The boundary follows the Los Padres National Forest boundary to the north-south section line dividing Section 11 from Section 12 in Township 18 South, Range 3 East.


(8) The boundary follows this section line north to the township line dividing Township 17 South from Township 18 South.


(9) The boundary follows this township line west to the north-south section line dividing Section 34 from Section 35 in Township 17 South, Range 3 East.


(10) The boundary follows this section line north to the Los Tularcitos Land Grant boundary.


(11) The boundary follows the Los Tularcitos Land Grant boundary northwesterly to the Carmel River.


(12) The boundary follows the Carmel River northerly to the Los Tularcitos Land Grant boundary.


(13) The boundary follows the Los Tularcitos Land Grant boundary northeasterly to the unsurveyed township line (approximate location denoted by a line of red dashes) dividing Township 16 South from Township 17 South.


(14) The boundary follows the unsurveyed township line west to the beginning point.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-119, 47 FR 55916, Dec. 14, 1982, as amended by T.D. TTB-91, 76 FR 5477, Feb. 1, 2011]




