# § 63.6090   What parts of my plant does this subpart cover?

This subpart applies to each affected source. 


(a) *Affected source.* An affected source is any existing, new, or reconstructed stationary combustion turbine located at a major source of HAP emissions. 


(1) *Existing stationary combustion turbine.* A stationary combustion turbine is existing if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the stationary combustion turbine on or before January 14, 2003. A change in ownership of an existing stationary combustion turbine does not make that stationary combustion turbine a new or reconstructed stationary combustion turbine. 


(2) *New stationary combustion turbine.* A stationary combustion turbine is new if you commenced construction of the stationary combustion turbine after January 14, 2003. 


(3) *Reconstructed stationary combustion turbine.* A stationary combustion turbine is reconstructed if you meet the definition of reconstruction in § 63.2 of subpart A of this part and reconstruction is commenced after January 14, 2003. 


(b) *Subcategories with limited requirements.* (1) A new or reconstructed stationary combustion turbine located at a major source which meets either of the following criteria does not have to meet the requirements of this subpart and of subpart A of this part except for the initial notification requirements of § 63.6145(d): 


(i) The stationary combustion turbine is an emergency stationary combustion turbine; or 


(ii) The stationary combustion turbine is located on the North Slope of Alaska. 


(2) A stationary combustion turbine which burns landfill gas or digester gas equivalent to 10 percent or more of the gross heat input on an annual basis, or a stationary combustion turbine where gasified municipal solid waste (MSW) is used to generate 10 percent or more of the gross heat input on an annual basis does not have to meet the requirements of this subpart except for: 


(i) The initial notification requirements of § 63.6145(d); and 


(ii) Additional monitoring and reporting requirements as provided in §§ 63.6125(c) and 63.6150. 


(3) An existing, new, or reconstructed stationary combustion turbine with a rated peak power output of less than 1.0 megawatt (MW) at International Organization for Standardization (ISO) standard day conditions, which is located at a major source, does not have to meet the requirements of this subpart and of subpart A of this part. This determination applies to the capacities of individual combustion turbines, whether or not an aggregated group of combustion turbines has a common add-on air pollution control device. No initial notification is necessary, even if the unit appears to be subject to other requirements for initial notification. For example, a 0.75 MW emergency turbine would not have to submit an initial notification. 


(4) Existing stationary combustion turbines in all subcategories do not have to meet the requirements of this subpart and of subpart A of this part. No initial notification is necessary for any existing stationary combustion turbine, even if a new or reconstructed turbine in the same category would require an initial notification. 


(5) Combustion turbine engine test cells/stands do not have to meet the requirements of this subpart but may have to meet the requirements of subpart A of this part if subject to another subpart. No initial notification is necessary, even if the unit appears to be subject to other requirements for initial notification. 




