# ยง 1724.54   Requirements for RUS approval of plans and specifications.

The provisions of this section apply only to RUS financed electric system facilities.


(a) For any contract subject to RUS approval in accordance with part 1726 of this chapter, the borrower shall obtain RUS approval of the plans and specifications, as part of the proposed bid package, prior to requesting bids. RUS may require approval of other plans and specifications on a case by case basis.


(b) *Distribution lines.* RUS approval of the plans and specifications for distribution line construction is not required if standard RUS drawings, specifications, RUS accepted material, and standard RUS contract forms (as required by part 1726 of this chapter) are used. Drawings, plans and specifications for nonstandard distribution construction must be submitted to RUS and receive approval prior to requesting bids on contracts or commencement of force account construction.


(c) *Transmission lines.* (1) Plans and specifications for transmission construction projects which are not based on RUS approved line design data or do not use RUS standard structures must receive RUS design approval or RUS certification approval prior to requesting bids on contracts or commencement of force account construction.


(2) Unless RUS approval is required by paragraph (a) of this section, plans and specifications for transmission construction which use previously approved design data and standard structures do not require RUS approval. Plans and specifications for related work, such as right-of-way clearing, equipment, and materials, do not require RUS approval unless required by paragraph (a) of this section.


(d) *Substations.* (1)(i) Plans and specifications for all new substations must receive RUS design approval or RUS certification approval prior to requesting bids on contracts or commencement of force account construction, unless:


(A) The substation design has been previously approved by RUS; and


(B) No significant NESC revisions have occurred.


(ii) The borrower shall notify RUS in writing, which may include the Construction Work Plan or amendment thereto that contains the proposed new substation, that a previously approved design will be used, including identification of the previously approved design.


(2) Unless RUS approval is required by paragraph (a) of this section, plans and specifications for substation modifications and for substations using previously approved designs do not require RUS approval.


(e) *Generation facilities.* (1) This paragraph (e) covers all portions of a generating plant including plant buildings, the generator step-up transformer, and the transmission switchyard at a generating plant. Warehouses and equipment service buildings not associated with generation plants are covered under paragraph (f) of this section.


(2) The borrower shall obtain RUS approval, prior to issuing invitations to bid, of the terms and conditions for all generating plant equipment or construction contracts which will cost $5,000,000 or more, provided however that the terms of any indenture or other agreement between RUS and the borrower supersede the requirement of RUS approval contained herein. Unless RUS approval is required by paragraph (a) of this section, plans and specifications for generating plant equipment and construction do not require RUS approval.


(f) *Headquarters buildings.* (1) This paragraph (f) covers office buildings, warehouses, and equipment service buildings. Generating plant buildings are covered under paragraph (e) of this section.


(2) Unless RUS approval is required by paragraph (a) of this section, plans and specifications for headquarters buildings do not require RUS approval. The application must show floor area and estimated cost breakdown between office building space and space for equipment warehousing and service facilities, and include a one line drawing (floor plan and elevation view), to scale, of the proposed building with overall dimensions shown. The information concerning the planned building may be included in the borrower's construction work plan in lieu of submitting it with the application. (*See* 7 CFR part 1710, subpart F.) Prior to issuing the plans and specifications for bid, the borrower shall also submit to RUS a statement, signed by the architect or engineer, that the building design meets the Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards (*See* ยง 1724.51(e)(1)(i)).


(g) *Communications and control facilities.* (1) This paragraph (g) covers microwave and powerline carrier communications systems, load control, and supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) systems, but does not include cybersecurity systems.


(2) The borrower shall obtain RUS approval, prior to issuing invitations to bid, of the terms and conditions for communications and control facilities contracts which will cost $1,500,000 or more; provided however that the terms of any indenture or other agreement between RUS and the borrower supersede the requirement of RUS approval contained herein. Unless RUS approval is required by paragraph (a) of this section, plans and specifications for communications and control facilities do not require RUS approval.


(h) Terms and conditions include the RUS standard form of contract, general and special conditions, and any other non-technical provisions of the contract. Terms and conditions which have received RUS approval in connection with a previous contract for a particular borrower are considered approved by RUS for that borrower.



---

[N] [63 FR 35314, June 29, 1998, as amended at 65 FR 63196, Oct. 23, 2000; 77 FR 3071, Jan. 23, 2012; 84 FR 32617, July 9, 2019; 87 FR 73442, Nov. 30, 2022]






