# § 98.66   Data reporting requirements.

In addition to the information required by § 98.3(c), you must report the following information at the facility level:


(a) [Reserved]


(b) Type of smelter technology used.


(c) The following PFC-specific information on an annual basis:


(1) Perfluoromethane emissions and perfluoroethane emissions from anode effects in all prebake and all Søderberg electrolysis cells combined.


(2) Anode effect minutes per cell-day (AE-mins/cell-day), anode effect frequency (AE/cell-day), anode effect duration (minutes). (Or anode effect overvoltage factor ((kg CF4/metric ton Al)/(mV/cell day)), potline overvoltage (mV/cell day), current efficiency (%)).


(3) Smelter-specific slope coefficients (or overvoltage emission factors) and the last date when the smelter-specific slope coefficients (or overvoltage emission factors) were measured.


(d) Method used to measure the frequency and duration of anode effects (or overvoltage).


(e) The following CO_2_-specific information for prebake cells:


(1) Annual anode consumption if using the method in § 98.63(g).


(2) Annual CO_2_ emissions from the smelter.


(f) The following CO_2_-specific information for Søderberg cells:


(1) Annual paste consumption if using the method in § 98.63(g).


(2) Annual CO_2_ emissions from the smelter.


(g) [Reserved]


(h) Exact data elements required will vary depending on smelter technology (e.g., point-feed prebake or Søderberg) and process control technology (e.g., Pechiney or other).



---

[N] [74 FR 56374, Oct. 30, 2009, as amended at 75 FR 79156, Dec. 17, 2010; 79 FR 63784, Oct. 24, 2014; 81 FR 89253, Dec. 9, 2016]




