# § 817.45   Hydrologic balance: Sediment control measures.

(a) Appropriate sediment control measures shall be designed, constructed, and maintained using the best technology currently available to:


(1) Prevent, to the extent possible, additional contributions of sediment to stream flow or to runoff outside the permit area,


(2) Meet the more stringent of applicable State or Federal effluent limitations,


(3) Minimize erosion to the extent possible.


(b) Sediment control measures include practices carried out within and adjacent to the disturbed area. The sedimentation storage capacity of practices in and downstream from the disturbed areas shall reflect the degree to which successful mining and reclamation techniques are applied to reduce erosion and control sediment. Sediment control measures consist of the utilization of proper mining and reclamation methods and sediment control practices, singly or in combination. Sediment control methods include but are not limited to—


(1) Disturbing the smallest practicable area at any one time during the mining operation through progressive backfilling, grading, and prompt revegetation as required in § 817.111(b);


(2) Stabilizing the backfilled material to promote a reduction of the rate and volume of runoff in accordance with the requirements of § 817.102;


(3) Retaining sediment within disturbed areas;


(4) Diverting runoff away from disturbed areas;


(5) Diverting runoff using protected channels or pipes through disturbed areas so as not to cause additional erosion;


(6) Using straw dikes, riprap, check dams, mulches, vegetative sediment filters, dugout ponds, and other measures that reduce overland flow velocity, reduce runoff volume, or trap sediment;


(7) Treating with chemicals; and


(8) Treating mine drainage in underground sumps.



---

[N] [44 FR 15422, Mar. 13, 1979, as amended at 48 FR 44781, Sept. 30, 1983; 81 FR 93418, Dec. 20, 2016; 82 FR 54999, Nov. 17, 2017]




