# ยง 1010.310   Annual report of activity.

(a) As an integral part of the Statement of Record, the developer shall file with the Director an Annual Report of Activity on any initial or consolidated registration not under suspension. For this purpose, only one Annual Report of Activity will be expected for subdivisions on which developers have filed consolidations. For registrations certified by a state as provided for in ยง 1010.500, a developer need file only one Annual Report of Activity for any registration for which the ILSRP number is the same (alphabetic designators indicate that the registration has been treated as a consolidation).


(b) The report shall be submitted within 30 days of the annual anniversary of the effective date of the initial Statement of Record. The report may be submitted via the electronic means described in ยง 1010.20(a).


(c) The report shall contain the following information:


(1) Subdivision name and address.


(2) Developer's name, address and telephone number.


(3) Agent's name, address and telephone number.


(4) Interstate Land Sales Registration number.


(5) The date on which the initial filing first became effective.


(6) The number of registered lots, parcels or units which are unsold as of the date on which the report is due.


(7) One of the following:


(i) A statement that the developer is still engaged in land sales activity at the subject subdivision and that there have been no changes in material fact since the last effective date was issued which would require an amendment to the Statement of Record; or


(ii) A statement that the developer is still engaged in land sales activity at the subject subdivision, that material changes have occurred since the last effective date, and that corrected pages to the Property Report portion or Additional Information and Documentation portion of the Statement accompany the report; or


(iii) A statement that the developer is no longer engaged in land sales activity at the subject subdivision, together with the reason the developer is no longer selling (*e.g.,* all lots sold to the public or the remaining lots sold to another developer, along with the date of sale and the new developer's name, address and telephone number). A request may be made that the Statement of Record be voluntarily suspended. The request should be submitted in duplicate and will become effective upon the counter-signature of the Director (or an authorized Designee) with the duplicate being returned to the developer.


(8) The report shall be dated and shall be signed by the senior executive officer of the developer on a signature line above his typed name and title. The senior executive officer's acknowledgement shall be attested to or certified by a notary public or similar public official authorized to attest or certify acknowledgements in the jurisdiction in which the report is executed.


(d) If the report indicates that there are 101 or more registered lots, parcels or units remaining for sale, the report shall be accompanied by an amendment fee in the amount and form prescribed in ยง 1010.35.


(e) Failure to submit the report when due shall be grounds for an action to suspend the effective Statement of Record.



---

[N] [76 FR 79489, Dec. 21, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 29117, May 11, 2016]




