# § 17.164   Production record.

(a) *General.* Each manufacturer shall keep a production record for each batch of intermediate product and for each batch of nonbeverage product. The production record shall be an original record made at the time of production by a person (or persons) having actual knowledge thereof. If any product is produced by a continuous process rather than by batches, the production record shall pertain to the total quantity of that product produced during each claim period.


(b) *Information to be shown.* The record shall show the name and formula number of the product, the actual quantities of all ingredients used in the manufacture of the batch (including the proof or alcohol percentage by volume of all spirits), the date when eligible spirits were considered used (see § 17.152), the effective tax rate applicable to those spirits (if other than the rate prescribed by 26 U.S.C. 5001), and the quantity of product produced. The alcohol content of the product shall be shown if a test of alcohol content was made (see paragraph (e) of this section). Usage of eligible and ineligible spirits shall be shown separately. If spirits from Puerto Rico or the U.S. Virgin Islands, containing at least 92% rum, were used, the record shall indicate their place of origin. If rum was used, the record shall indicate whether it was from Puerto Rico, from the U.S. Virgin Islands, imported from other countries, or domestic. If spirits were recovered, the production record shall so indicate, and the record required by § 17.168 shall be kept. If drawback is claimed on spirits consumed as an essential part of the manufacture of a nonbeverage product, which were not contained in that product at its completion, then the production record shall show the quantity of spirits so consumed in the manufacture of each batch.


(c) *Specificity of information.* The production record shall refer to ingredients by the same names as are used for them in the product's formula. This includes formulas submitted to TTB and formulas contained in the publications listed in § 17.132. Other names for the ingredients may be added in the production record, if necessary for the manufacturer's operations. Usage of ingredients (including spirits) may be shown in units of weight or volume.


(d) *Determining quantity of distilled spirits used.* Each manufacturer shall accurately determine, by weight or volume, and record in the production records the quantity of all distilled spirits used. When the quantity used is determined by volume, adjustments shall be made if the temperature of the spirits is above or below 60 degrees Fahrenheit. A table for correction of volume of spirituous liquors to 60 degrees Fahrenheit, Table 7 of the “Gauging Manual,” is available. See subpart E of part 30 of this chapter and § 30.67. Losses after receipt due to leakage, spillage, evaporation, or other causes not essential to the manufacturing process shall be accurately recorded in the manufacturer's permanent records at the time such losses are determined.


(e) *Tests of alcohol content.* At representative intervals, the manufacturer shall verify the alcohol content of nonbeverage products. The results of such tests shall be recorded.




