# § 250.1000   General requirements.

(a) Pipelines and associated valves, flanges, and fittings shall be designed, installed, operated, maintained, and abandoned to provide safe and pollution-free transportation of fluids in a manner which does not unduly interfere with other uses in the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS).


(b) An application must be accompanied by payment of the service fee listed in § 250.125 and submitted to the Regional Supervisor and approval obtained before:


(1) Installation, modification, or abandonment of a lease term pipeline;


(2) Installation or modification of a right-of-way (other than lease term) pipeline; or


(3) Modification or relinquishment of a pipeline right-of way.


(c)(1) Department of the Interior (DOI) pipelines, as defined in § 250.1001, must meet the requirements in §§ 250.1000 through 250.1008.


(2) A pipeline right-of-way grant holder must identify in writing to the Regional Supervisor the operator of any pipeline located on its right-of-way, if the operator is different from the right-of-way grant holder.


(3) A producing operator must identify for its own records, on all existing pipelines located on its lease or right-of-way, the specific points at which operating responsibility transfers to a transporting operator.


(i) Each producing operator must, if practical, durably mark all of its above-water transfer points as of the date a pipeline begins service.


(ii) If it is not practical to durably mark a transfer point, and the transfer point is located above water, then the operator must identify the transfer point on a schematic located on the facility.


(iii) If a transfer point is located below water, then the operator must identify the transfer point on a schematic and provide the schematic to BSEE upon request.


(iv) If adjoining producing and transporting operators cannot agree on a transfer point, the BSEE Regional Supervisor and the appropriate Department of Transportation (DOT) pipeline official may jointly determine the transfer point.


(4) The transfer point serves as a regulatory boundary. An operator may request that the BSEE Regional Supervisor grant an exception to this requirement for an individual facility or area. The Regional Supervisor, in consultation with the appropriate DOT pipeline official and affected parties, may grant the request.


(5) Pipeline segments designed, constructed, maintained, and operated under DOT regulations but transferring to DOI regulation as of October 16, 1998, may continue to operate under DOT design and construction requirements until significant modifications or repairs are made to those segments. After October 16, 1998, BSEE operational and maintenance requirements will apply to those segments.


(6) Any producer operating a pipeline that crosses into State waters without first connecting to a transporting operator's facility on the OCS must comply with this subpart. Compliance must extend from the point where hydrocarbons are first produced, through and including the last valve and associated safety equipment (e.g., pressure safety sensors) on the last production facility on the OCS.


(7) Any producer operating a pipeline that connects facilities on the OCS must comply with this subpart.


(8) Any operator of a pipeline that has a valve on the OCS downstream (landward) of the last production facility may ask in writing that the BSEE Regional Supervisor recognize that valve as the last point BSEE will exercise its regulatory authority.


(9) A pipeline segment is not subject to BSEE regulations for design, construction, operation, and maintenance if:


(i) It is downstream (generally shoreward) of the last valve and associated safety equipment on the last production facility on the OCS; and


(ii) It is subject to regulation under 49 CFR parts 192 and 195.


(10) DOT may inspect all upstream safety equipment (including valves, over-pressure protection devices, cathodic protection equipment, and pigging devices, *etc.*) that serve to protect the integrity of DOT-regulated pipeline segments.


(11) OCS pipeline segments not subject to DOT regulation under 49 CFR parts 192 and 195 are subject to all BSEE regulations.


(12) A producer may request that its pipeline operate under DOT regulations governing pipeline design, construction, operation, and maintenance.


(i) The operator's request must be in the form of a written petition to the BSEE Regional Supervisor that states the justification for the pipeline to operate under DOT regulation.


(ii) The Regional Supervisor will decide, on a case-by-case basis, whether to grant the operator's request. In considering each petition, the Regional Supervisor will consult with the appropriate DOT pipeline official.


(13) A transporter who operates a pipeline regulated by DOT may request to operate under BSEE regulations governing pipeline operation and maintenance. Any subsequent repairs or modifications will also be subject to BSEE regulations governing design and construction.


(i) The operator's request must be in the form of a written petition to the appropriate DOT pipeline official and the BSEE Regional Supervisor.


(ii) The BSEE Regional Supervisor and the appropriate DOT pipeline official will decide how to act on this petition.


(d) A pipeline which qualifies as a right-of-way pipeline (see § 250.1001, Definitions) shall not be installed until a right-of-way has been requested and granted in accordance with this subpart.


(e)(1) The Regional Supervisor may suspend any pipeline operation upon a determination by the Regional Supervisor that continued activity would threaten or result in serious, irreparable, or immediate harm or damage to life (including fish and other aquatic life), property, mineral deposits, or the marine, coastal, or human environment.


(2) The Regional Supervisor may also suspend pipeline operations or a right-of-way grant if the Regional Supervisor determines that the lessee or right-of-way holder has failed to comply with a provision of the Act or any other applicable law, a provision of these or other applicable regulations, or a condition of a permit or right-of-way grant.


(3) The Secretary of the Interior (Secretary) may cancel a pipeline permit or right-of-way grant in accordance with 43 U.S.C. 1334(a)(2). A right-of-way grant may be forfeited in accordance with 43 U.S.C. 1334(e).



---

[N] [76 FR 64462, Oct. 18, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 36150, June 6, 2016]




