# § 537.102   Definitions.

The definitions in this section apply only to part 537. In this part:


*Agency* has the meaning given that term in subparagraphs (A) through (E) of 5 U.S.C. 4101(1).


*Authorized agency official* means the head of an Executive agency or an official who is authorized to act for the head of the agency in the matter concerned.


*Employee* means an employee of an agency who satisfies the definition of the term in 5 U.S.C. 2105.


*Loan payment* means the net payment made by an agency to the holder of a student loan (after deducting any tax withholdings that may be made from the gross student loan repayment benefit credited to the employee).


*Service agreement* means a written agreement between an agency and an employee (or job candidate) under which the employee (or job candidate) agrees to a specified period of service in exchange for student loan repayment benefits, subject to the conditions set forth under this part.


*Student loan means*—


(1) A loan made, insured, or guaranteed under parts B, D or E of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965; or


(2) A health education assistance loan made or insured under part A of title VII of the Public Health Service Act or under part E of title VIII of that Act.


*Student loan repayment benefit* means the benefit provided to an employee under this part in which an agency repays (by a direct payment on behalf of the employee) a qualifying student loan as described in § 537.106(b) previously taken out by such employee. The dollar value of this benefit is the gross amount credited to the employee at the time of a loan payment to the holder of the student loan, before deducting any employee tax withholdings from that gross amount as described in § 537.106(a)(6)(iii). A student loan repayment benefit is not considered basic pay for any purpose.


*Time-limited appointment* means a non-permanent appointment including—


(1) A temporary appointment under 5 CFR part 316, subpart D, or similar authority;


(2) A term appointment under 5 CFR part 316, subpart C, or similar authority;


(3) An overseas limited appointment with a time limitation under 5 CFR part 301, subpart B;


(4) A limited term or limited emergency appointment in the Senior Executive Service, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 3132(a), or an equivalent appointment made for similar purposes;


(5) A Veterans Recruitment Appointment under 5 CFR part 307;


(6) A Presidential Management Fellows Program appointment under § 213.3402(c) of this chapter;


(7) A Recent Graduates Program appointment under § 213.3402(b) of this chapter; and


(8) An appointment under the fellowship and similar programs authority at 5 CFR 213.3102(r).



---

[N] [73 FR 64865, Oct. 31, 2008, as amended at 77 FR 28223, May 11, 2012]




