# ยง 810.102   Definition of other terms.

Unless otherwise stated, the definitions in this section apply to all grains. All other definitions unique to a particular grain are contained in the appropriate subpart for that grain.


(a) *Distinctly low quality.* Grain that is obviously of inferior quality because it is in an unusual state or condition, and that cannot be graded properly by use of other grading factors provided in the standards. Distinctly low quality includes the presence of any objects too large to enter the sampling device; *i.e.*, large stones, wreckage, or similar objects.


(b) *Moisture.* Water content in grain as determined by an approved device according to procedures prescribed in FGIS instructions.


(c) *Stones.* Concreted earthy or mineral matter and other substances of similar hardness that do not disintegrate in water.


(d) *Test Weight per bushel.* The weight per Winchester bushel (2,150.42 cubic inches) as determined using an approved device according to procedures prescribed in FGIS instructions. Test weight per bushel in the standards for corn, mixed grain, oats, sorghum, and soybeans is determined on the original sample. Test weight per bushel in the standards for barley, flaxseed, rye, sunflower seed, triticale, and wheat is determined after mechanically cleaning the original sample. Test weight per bushel is recorded to the nearest tenth pound for corn, rye, sorghum, soybeans, triticale, and wheat. Test weight per bushel for all other grains, if applicable, is recorded in whole and half pounds with a fraction of a half pound disregarded. Test weight per bushel is not an official factor for canola.


(e) *Whole kernels.* Grain with 
1/4 or less of the kernel removed.



---

[N] [52 FR 24418, June 30, 1987, as amended at 60 FR 61196, Nov. 29, 1995; 71 FR 52406, Sept. 6, 2006; 72 FR 39732, July 20, 2007]




