# § 742.5   Missile technology.

(a) *License requirements.* (1) In support of U.S. foreign policy to limit the proliferation of missiles, a license is required to export and reexport items related to the design, development, production, or use of missiles. These items are identified in ECCNs on the CCL as MT Column No. 1 in the Country Chart column of the “License Requirements” section. Licenses for these items are required to all destinations, except Australia, Canada, or the United Kingdom, as indicated by MT Column 1 of the Country Chart (see supplement no. 1 to part 738 of the EAR).






(2) The term “missiles” is defined as rocket systems (including ballistic missiles, space launch vehicles, and sounding rockets) and unmanned aerial vehicle systems (including cruise missiles, target drones, and reconnaissance drones) capable of delivering at least 500 kilograms (kg) payload to a range of at least 300 kilometers (km). See § 746.3 of the EAR for definition of a “ballistic missile” to be exported or reexported to Iraq.


(b) *Licensing policy.* (1) Applications to export and reexport items identified in ECCNs on the CCL as MT Column No. 1 in the Country Chart column of the “License Requirements” section will be considered on a case-by-case basis to determine whether the export or reexport would make a material contribution to the proliferation of missiles. Applications for exports and reexports of such items contained in Category 7A or described by ECCN 9A101 on the CCL will be considered favorably if such exports or reexports are destined to a manned aircraft, satellite, land vehicle, or marine vessel, in quantities appropriate for replacement “parts” and “components” for such applications. When an export or reexport is deemed to make a material contribution to the proliferation of missiles, the license will be denied.


(2) The following factors are among those that will be considered in reviewing individual applications.


(i) The specific nature of the end-use;


(ii) The significance of the export and reexport in terms of its contribution to the design, development, production, or use of missiles;


(iii) The capabilities and objectives of the missile and space programs of the recipient country;


(iv) The nonproliferation credentials of the importing country;


(v) The types of assurances or guarantees against design, development, production, or use of missiles that are given in a particular case; and


(vi) The existence of a preexisting contract.


(3)(i) Consistent with the MTCR Annex *General Minimum Software Note,* MTCR Annex *General Technology Note* and § 750.7(c)(1)(x) of the EAR, the approval of any item controlled for MT reasons on a BIS license also authorizes the export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) to the same ultimate consignee(s) and end user(s) specified on the license of the minimum “software,” excluding source code, controlled for MT reasons that is required for the installation, operation, maintenance or repair of the item and the “technology” required for the installation, operation, maintenance, or repair of the item in order to ensure the item's safe operation as originally intended. The approval of any item controlled for MT reasons on a BIS license also authorizes the later export, reexport, or transfer (in-country) of “software” controlled for MT reasons intended to correct defects (bug fixes) in a previously legally exported item under a BIS license to the same ultimate consignee(s) and end user(s) specified on the license, provided that the capability and/or performance of the item are not otherwise enhanced. This MT licensing policy is implemented concurrent with § 750.7(c)(1)(x) because it applies to all MT licenses, except when a condition is placed on the license which excludes the use of § 750.7(c)(1)(x), as described in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section.


(ii) Applicants are not required to identify or provide any support documentation for such minimum “software” or “technology” on a license application for MT controlled items because such minimum “software” or “technology” is authorized within the scope of the license, consistent with § 750.7(c)(1)(x). Applicants will be informed when such minimum “software” and/or “technology” in § 750.7(c)(1)(x) is excluded from the license by a BIS condition on the license, which will state the following: “*This license does not authorize the export, reexport or transfer (in-country) of the minimum “software” and/or “technology” specified in paragraph (c)(1)(x) of § 750.7 (See paragraph (b)(3) of § 742.5).”*

(4) *Controls on other items.* BIS will review license applications, in accordance with the licensing policy described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, for items not described in paragraph (a) of this section that:


(i) Require a validated license for reasons other than short supply; and


(ii) Could be destined for the design, development, production, or use of missiles, or for a facility engaged in such activities.


(5) License applications for items described in paragraph (a) of this section, when destined for the People's Republic of China, will be reviewed in accordance with the licensing policies in both paragraph (b) of this section and § 742.4(b)(7). When such items are destined to Russia or Belarus, license applications will be reviewed under a policy of denial. However, exports and reexports of items to Russia or Belarus in support of U.S.-Russia or U.S.-Belarus civil space cooperation activities-will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. See § 746.8(b) of the EAR.


(c) *Contract sanctity.* The following contract sanctity dates have been established:


(1) License applications for batch mixers specified in ECCN 1B117 involving contracts that were entered into prior to January 19, 1990, will be considered on a case-by-case basis.


(2) License applications subject to ECCN 1B115.b or .c that involve a contract entered into prior to March 7, 1991, will be considered on a case-by-case basis.


(3) Applicants who wish that a pre-existing contract be considered in reviewing their license applications must submit documentation sufficient to establish the existence of a contract.


(d) *Missile Technology Control Regime.* Missile Technology Control Regime (MTCR) members are listed in Country Group A:2 (see supplement no. 1 to part 740 of the EAR). Controls on items identified in paragraph (a) of this section are consistent with the list agreed to in the MTCR and included in the MTCR Annex.



---

[N] [61 FR 12786, Mar. 25, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 16147, Apr. 2, 2003; 69 FR 46075, July 30, 2004; 72 FR 33656, June 19, 2007; 76 FR 4231, Jan. 25, 2011; 81 FR 19030, Apr. 4, 2016; 81 FR 76861, Nov. 4, 2016; 82 FR 31446, July 7, 2017; 85 FR 10277, Feb. 24, 2020; 86 FR 2254, Jan. 12, 2021; 87 FR 12239, Mar. 3, 2022; 87 FR 13059, Mar. 8, 2022; 89 FR 28599, Apr. 19, 2024]




