# § 668.46   Institutional security policies and crime statistics.

(a) *Definitions.* Additional definitions that apply to this section:


*Business day.* Monday through Friday, excluding any day when the institution is closed.


*Campus.* (i) Any building or property owned or controlled by an institution within the same reasonably contiguous geographic area and used by the institution in direct support of, or in a manner related to, the institution's educational purposes, including residence halls; and


(ii) Any building or property that is within or reasonably contiguous to the area identified in paragraph (i) of this definition, that is owned by the institution but controlled by another person, is frequently used by students, and supports institutional purposes (such as a food or other retail vendor).


*Campus security authority.* (i) A campus police department or a campus security department of an institution.


(ii) Any individual or individuals who have responsibility for campus security but who do not constitute a campus police department or a campus security department under paragraph (i) of this definition, such as an individual who is responsible for monitoring entrance into institutional property.


(iii) Any individual or organization specified in an institution's statement of campus security policy as an individual or organization to which students and employees should report criminal offenses.


(iv) An official of an institution who has significant responsibility for student and campus activities, including, but not limited to, student housing, student discipline, and campus judicial proceedings. If such an official is a pastoral or professional counselor as defined below, the official is not considered a campus security authority when acting as a pastoral or professional counselor.


*Clery geography.* (i) For the purposes of collecting statistics on the crimes listed in paragraph (c) of this section for submission to the Department and inclusion in an institution's annual security report, Clery geography includes—


(A) Buildings and property that are part of the institution's campus;


(B) The institution's noncampus buildings and property; and


(C) Public property within or immediately adjacent to and accessible from the campus.


(ii) For the purposes of maintaining the crime log required in paragraph (f) of this section, Clery geography includes, in addition to the locations in paragraph (i) of this definition, areas within the patrol jurisdiction of the campus police or the campus security department.


*Dating violence.* Violence committed by a person who is or has been in a social relationship of a romantic or intimate nature with the victim.


(i) The existence of such a relationship shall be determined based on the reporting party's statement and with consideration of the length of the relationship, the type of relationship, and the frequency of interaction between the persons involved in the relationship.


(ii) For the purposes of this definition—


(A) Dating violence includes, but is not limited to, sexual or physical abuse or the threat of such abuse.


(B) Dating violence does not include acts covered under the definition of domestic violence.


(iii) For the purposes of complying with the requirements of this section and § 668.41, any incident meeting this definition is considered a crime for the purposes of Clery Act reporting.


*Domestic violence.* (i) A felony or misdemeanor crime of violence committed—


(A) By a current or former spouse or intimate partner of the victim;


(B) By a person with whom the victim shares a child in common;


(C) By a person who is cohabitating with, or has cohabitated with, the victim as a spouse or intimate partner;


(D) By a person similarly situated to a spouse of the victim under the domestic or family violence laws of the jurisdiction in which the crime of violence occurred, or


(E) By any other person against an adult or youth victim who is protected from that person's acts under the domestic or family violence laws of the jurisdiction in which the crime of violence occurred.


(ii) For the purposes of complying with the requirements of this section and § 668.41, any incident meeting this definition is considered a crime for the purposes of Clery Act reporting.


*Federal Bureau of Investigation's (FBI) Uniform Crime Reporting (UCR) program.* A nationwide, cooperative statistical effort in which city, university and college, county, State, Tribal, and federal law enforcement agencies voluntarily report data on crimes brought to their attention. The UCR program also serves as the basis for the definitions of crimes in Appendix A to this subpart and the requirements for classifying crimes in this subpart.


*Hate crime.* A crime reported to local police agencies or to a campus security authority that manifests evidence that the victim was intentionally selected because of the perpetrator's bias against the victim. For the purposes of this section, the categories of bias include the victim's actual or perceived race, religion, gender, gender identity, sexual orientation, ethnicity, national origin, and disability.


*Hierarchy Rule.* A requirement in the FBI's UCR program that, for purposes of reporting crimes in that system, when more than one criminal offense was committed during a single incident, only the most serious offense be counted.


*Noncampus building or property.* (i) Any building or property owned or controlled by a student organization that is officially recognized by the institution; or


(ii) Any building or property owned or controlled by an institution that is used in direct support of, or in relation to, the institution's educational purposes, is frequently used by students, and is not within the same reasonably contiguous geographic area of the institution.


*Pastoral counselor.* A person who is associated with a religious order or denomination, is recognized by that religious order or denomination as someone who provides confidential counseling, and is functioning within the scope of that recognition as a pastoral counselor.


*Professional counselor.* A person whose official responsibilities include providing mental health counseling to members of the institution's community and who is functioning within the scope of the counselor's license or certification.


*Programs to prevent dating violence, domestic violence, sexual assault, and stalking.* (i) Comprehensive, intentional, and integrated programming, initiatives, strategies, and campaigns intended to end dating violence, domestic violence, sexual assault, and stalking that—


(A) Are culturally relevant, inclusive of diverse communities and identities, sustainable, responsive to community needs, and informed by research or assessed for value, effectiveness, or outcome; and


(B) Consider environmental risk and protective factors as they occur on the individual, relationship, institutional, community, and societal levels.


(ii) Programs to prevent dating violence, domestic violence, sexual assault, and stalking include both primary prevention and awareness programs directed at incoming students and new employees and ongoing prevention and awareness campaigns directed at students and employees, as defined in paragraph (j)(2) of this section.


*Public property.* All public property, including thoroughfares, streets, sidewalks, and parking facilities, that is within the campus, or immediately adjacent to and accessible from the campus.


*Referred for campus disciplinary action.* The referral of any person to any campus official who initiates a disciplinary action of which a record is kept and which may result in the imposition of a sanction.


*Sexual assault.* An offense that meets the definition of rape, fondling, incest, or statutory rape as used in the FBI's UCR program and included in Appendix A of this subpart.


*Stalking.* (i) Engaging in a course of conduct directed at a specific person that would cause a reasonable person to—


(A) Fear for the person's safety or the safety of others; or


(B) Suffer substantial emotional distress.


(ii) For the purposes of this definition—


(A) *Course of conduct* means two or more acts, including, but not limited to, acts in which the stalker directly, indirectly, or through third parties, by any action, method, device, or means, follows, monitors, observes, surveils, threatens, or communicates to or about a person, or interferes with a person's property.


(B) *Reasonable person* means a reasonable person under similar circumstances and with similar identities to the victim.


(C) *Substantial emotional distress* means significant mental suffering or anguish that may, but does not necessarily, require medical or other professional treatment or counseling.


(iii) For the purposes of complying with the requirements of this section and section 668.41, any incident meeting this definition is considered a crime for the purposes of Clery Act reporting.


*Test.* Regularly scheduled drills, exercises, and appropriate follow-through activities, designed for assessment and evaluation of emergency plans and capabilities.


(b) *Annual security report.* An institution must prepare an annual security report reflecting its current policies that contains, at a minimum, the following information:


(1) The crime statistics described in paragraph (c) of this section.


(2) A statement of policies regarding procedures for students and others to report criminal actions or other emergencies occurring on campus. This statement must include the institution's policies concerning its response to these reports, including—


(i) Policies for making timely warning reports to members of the campus community, as required by paragraph (e) of this section, regarding the occurrence of crimes described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section;


(ii) Policies for preparing the annual disclosure of crime statistics;


(iii) A list of the titles of each person or organization to whom students and employees should report the criminal offenses described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section for the purposes of making timely warning reports and the annual statistical disclosure; and


(iv) Policies or procedures for victims or witnesses to report crimes on a voluntary, confidential basis for inclusion in the annual disclosure of crime statistics.


(3) A statement of policies concerning security of and access to campus facilities, including campus residences, and security considerations used in the maintenance of campus facilities.


(4) A statement of policies concerning campus law enforcement that—


(i) Addresses the enforcement authority and jurisdiction of security personnel;


(ii) Addresses the working relationship of campus security personnel with State and local police agencies, including—


(A) Whether those security personnel have the authority to make arrests; and


(B) Any agreements, such as written memoranda of understanding between the institution and such agencies, for the investigation of alleged criminal offenses.


(iii) Encourages accurate and prompt reporting of all crimes to the campus police and the appropriate police agencies, when the victim of a crime elects to, or is unable to, make such a report; and


(iv) Describes procedures, if any, that encourage pastoral counselors and professional counselors, if and when they deem it appropriate, to inform the persons they are counseling of any procedures to report crimes on a voluntary, confidential basis for inclusion in the annual disclosure of crime statistics.


(5) A description of the type and frequency of programs designed to inform students and employees about campus security procedures and practices and to encourage students and employees to be responsible for their own security and the security of others.


(6) A description of programs designed to inform students and employees about the prevention of crimes.


(7) A statement of policy concerning the monitoring and recording through local police agencies of criminal activity by students at noncampus locations of student organizations officially recognized by the institution, including student organizations with noncampus housing facilities.


(8) A statement of policy regarding the possession, use, and sale of alcoholic beverages and enforcement of State underage drinking laws.


(9) A statement of policy regarding the possession, use, and sale of illegal drugs and enforcement of Federal and State drug laws.


(10) A description of any drug or alcohol-abuse education programs, as required under section 120(a) through (d) of the HEA, otherwise known as the Drug-Free Schools and Communities Act of 1989. For the purpose of meeting this requirement, an institution may cross-reference the materials the institution uses to comply with section 120(a) through (d) of the HEA.


(11) A statement of policy regarding the institution's programs to prevent dating violence, domestic violence, sexual assault, and stalking, as defined in paragraph (a) of this section, and of procedures that the institution will follow when one of these crimes is reported. The statement must include—


(i) A description of the institution's educational programs and campaigns to promote the awareness of dating violence, domestic violence, sexual assault, and stalking, as required by paragraph (j) of this section;


(ii) Procedures victims should follow if a crime of dating violence, domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking has occurred, including written information about—


(A) The importance of preserving evidence that may assist in proving that the alleged criminal offense occurred or may be helpful in obtaining a protection order;


(B) How and to whom the alleged offense should be reported;


(C) Options about the involvement of law enforcement and campus authorities, including notification of the victim's option to—


(*1*) Notify proper law enforcement authorities, including on-campus and local police;


(*2*) Be assisted by campus authorities in notifying law enforcement authorities if the victim so chooses; and


(*3*) Decline to notify such authorities; and


(D) Where applicable, the rights of victims and the institution's responsibilities for orders of protection, “no-contact” orders, restraining orders, or similar lawful orders issued by a criminal, civil, or tribal court or by the institution;


(iii) Information about how the institution will protect the confidentiality of victims and other necessary parties, including how the institution will—


(A) Complete publicly available recordkeeping, including Clery Act reporting and disclosures, without the inclusion of personally identifying information about the victim, as defined in section 40002(a)(20) of the Violence Against Women Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C. 13925(a)(20)); and


(B) Maintain as confidential any accommodations or protective measures provided to the victim, to the extent that maintaining such confidentiality would not impair the ability of the institution to provide the accommodations or protective measures;


(iv) A statement that the institution will provide written notification to students and employees about existing counseling, health, mental health, victim advocacy, legal assistance, visa and immigration assistance, student financial aid, and other services available for victims, both within the institution and in the community;


(v) A statement that the institution will provide written notification to victims about options for, available assistance in, and how to request changes to academic, living, transportation, and working situations or protective measures. The institution must make such accommodations or provide such protective measures if the victim requests them and if they are reasonably available, regardless of whether the victim chooses to report the crime to campus police or local law enforcement;


(vi) An explanation of the procedures for institutional disciplinary action in cases of alleged dating violence, domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking, as required by paragraph (k) of this section; and


(vii) A statement that, when a student or employee reports to the institution that the student or employee has been a victim of dating violence, domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking, whether the offense occurred on or off campus, the institution will provide the student or employee a written explanation of the student's or employee's rights and options, as described in paragraphs (b)(11)(ii) through (vi) of this section.


(12) A statement advising the campus community where law enforcement agency information provided by a State under section 121 of the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006 (42 U.S.C. 16921), concerning registered sex offenders may be obtained, such as the law enforcement office of the institution, a local law enforcement agency with jurisdiction for the campus, or a computer network address.


(13) A statement of policy regarding emergency response and evacuation procedures, as required by paragraph (g) of this section.


(14) A statement of policy regarding missing student notification procedures, as required by paragraph (h) of this section.


(c) *Crime statistics*—(1) *Crimes that must be reported and disclosed.* An institution must report to the Department and disclose in its annual security report statistics for the three most recent calendar years concerning the number of each of the following crimes that occurred on or within its Clery geography and that are reported to local police agencies or to a campus security authority:


(i) Primary crimes, including—


(A) Criminal homicide:


(*1*) Murder and nonnegligent manslaughter; and


(*2*) Negligent manslaughter.


(B) Sex offenses:


(*1*) Rape;


(*2*) Fondling;


(*3*) Incest; and


(*4*) Statutory rape.


(C) Robbery.


(D) Aggravated assault.


(E) Burglary.


(F) Motor vehicle theft.


(G) Arson.


(ii) Arrests and referrals for disciplinary actions, including—


(A) Arrests for liquor law violations, drug law violations, and illegal weapons possession.


(B) Persons not included in paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(A) of this section who were referred for campus disciplinary action for liquor law violations, drug law violations, and illegal weapons possession.


(iii) Hate crimes, including—


(A) The number of each type of crime in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section that are determined to be hate crimes; and


(B) The number of the following crimes that are determined to be hate crimes:


(*1*) Larceny-theft.


(*2*) Simple assault.


(*3*) Intimidation.


(*4*) Destruction/damage/vandalism of property.


(iv) Dating violence, domestic violence, and stalking as defined in paragraph (a) of this section.


(2) *All reported crimes must be recorded.* (i) An institution must include in its crime statistics all crimes listed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section occurring on or within its Clery geography that are reported to a campus security authority for purposes of Clery Act reporting. Clery Act reporting does not require initiating an investigation or disclosing personally identifying information about the victim, as defined in section 40002(a)(20) of the Violence Against Women Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C. 13925(a)(20)).


(ii) An institution may not withhold, or subsequently remove, a reported crime from its crime statistics based on a decision by a court, coroner, jury, prosecutor, or other similar noncampus official.


(iii) An institution may withhold, or subsequently remove, a reported crime from its crime statistics in the rare situation where sworn or commissioned law enforcement personnel have fully investigated the reported crime and, based on the results of this full investigation and evidence, have made a formal determination that the crime report is false or baseless and therefore “unfounded.” Only sworn or commissioned law enforcement personnel may “unfound” a crime report for purposes of reporting under this section. The recovery of stolen property, the low value of stolen property, the refusal of the victim to cooperate with the prosecution, and the failure to make an arrest do not “unfound” a crime report.


(A) An institution must report to the Department and disclose in its annual security report statistics the total number of crime reports listed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section that were “unfounded” and subsequently withheld from its crime statistics pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section during each of the three most recent calendar years.


(B) [Reserved]


(3) *Crimes must be recorded by calendar year.* (i) An institution must record a crime statistic for the calendar year in which the crime was reported to local police agencies or to a campus security authority.


(ii) When recording crimes of stalking by calendar year, an institution must follow the requirements in paragraph (c)(6) of this section.


(4) *Hate crimes must be recorded by category of bias.* For each hate crime recorded under paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section, an institution must identify the category of bias that motivated the crime. For the purposes of this paragraph, the categories of bias include the victim's actual or perceived—


(i) Race;


(ii) Gender;


(iii) Gender identity;


(iv) Religion;


(v) Sexual orientation;


(vi) Ethnicity;


(vii) National origin; and


(viii) Disability.


(5) *Crimes must be recorded by location.* (i) An institution must specify whether each of the crimes recorded under paragraph (c)(1) of this section occurred—


(A) On campus;


(B) In or on a noncampus building or property; or


(C) On public property.


(ii) An institution must identify, of the crimes that occurred on campus, the number that took place in dormitories or other residential facilities for students on campus.


(iii) When recording stalking by location, an institution must follow the requirements in paragraph (c)(6) of this section.


(6) *Recording reports of stalking.* (i) When recording reports of stalking that include activities in more than one calendar year, an institution must record a crime statistic for each and every year in which the course of conduct is reported to a local police agency or to a campus security authority.


(ii) An institution must record each report of stalking as occurring at only the first location within the institution's Clery geography in which:


(A) A perpetrator engaged in the stalking course of conduct; or


(B) A victim first became aware of the stalking.


(7) *Identification of the victim or the accused.* The statistics required under paragraph (c) of this section do not include the identification of the victim or the person accused of committing the crime.


(8) *Pastoral and professional counselor.* An institution is not required to report statistics under paragraph (c) of this section for crimes reported to a pastoral or professional counselor.


(9) *Using the FBI's UCR program and the Hierarchy Rule.* (i) An institution must compile the crime statistics for murder and nonnegligent manslaughter, negligent manslaughter, rape, robbery, aggravated assault, burglary, motor vehicle theft, arson, liquor law violations, drug law violations, and illegal weapons possession using the definitions of those crimes from the “Summary Reporting System (SRS) User Manual” from the FBI's UCR Program, as provided in Appendix A to this subpart.


(ii) An institution must compile the crime statistics for fondling, incest, and statutory rape using the definitions of those crimes from the “National Incident-Based Reporting System (NIBRS) User Manual” from the FBI's UCR Program, as provided in Appendix A to this subpart.


(iii) An institution must compile the crime statistics for the hate crimes of larceny-theft, simple assault, intimidation, and destruction/damage/vandalism of property using the definitions provided in the “Hate Crime Data Collection Guidelines and Training Manual” from the FBI's UCR Program, as provided in Appendix A to this subpart.


(iv) An institution must compile the crime statistics for dating violence, domestic violence, and stalking using the definitions provided in paragraph (a) of this section.


(v) In counting crimes when more than one offense was committed during a single incident, an institution must conform to the requirements of the Hierarchy Rule in the “Summary Reporting System (SRS) User Manual.


(vi) If arson is committed, an institution must always record the arson in its statistics, regardless of whether or not it occurs in the same incident as another crime.


(vii) If rape, fondling, incest, or statutory rape occurs in the same incident as a murder, an institution must record both the sex offense and the murder in its statistics.


(10) *Use of a map.* In complying with the statistical reporting requirements under this paragraph (c) of this section, an institution may provide a map to current and prospective students and employees that depicts its campus, noncampus buildings or property, and public property areas if the map accurately depicts its campus, noncampus buildings or property, and public property areas.


(11) *Statistics from police agencies.* (i) In complying with the statistical reporting requirements under paragraph (c) of this section, an institution must make a reasonable, good-faith effort to obtain statistics for crimes that occurred on or within the institution's Clery geography and may rely on the information supplied by a local or State police agency.


(ii) If the institution makes such a reasonable, good-faith effort, it is not responsible for the failure of the local or State police agency to supply the required statistics.


(d) *Separate campus.* An institution must comply with the requirements of this section for each separate campus.


(e) *Timely warning and emergency notification.* (1) An institution must, in a manner that is timely and that withholds as confidential the names and other identifying information of victims, as defined in section 40002(a)(20) of the Violence Against Women Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C. 13925(a)(20)), and that will aid in the prevention of similar crimes, report to the campus community on crimes that are—


(i) Described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section;


(ii) Reported to campus security authorities as identified under the institution's statement of current campus policies pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section or local police agencies; and


(iii) Considered by the institution to represent a threat to students and employees.


(2) An institution is not required to provide a timely warning with respect to crimes reported to a pastoral or professional counselor.


(3) If there is an immediate threat to the health or safety of students or employees occurring on campus, as described in paragraph (g)(1) of this section, an institution must follow its emergency notification procedures. An institution that follows its emergency notification procedures is not required to issue a timely warning based on the same circumstances; however, the institution must provide adequate follow-up information to the community as needed.


(f) *Crime log.* (1) An institution that maintains a campus police or a campus security department must maintain a written, easily understood daily crime log that records, by the date the crime was reported, any crime that occurred within its Clery geography, as described in paragraph (ii) of the definition of *Clery geography* in paragraph (a) of this section, and that is reported to the campus police or the campus security department. This log must include—


(i) The nature, date, time, and general location of each crime; and


(ii) The disposition of the complaint, if known.


(2) The institution must make an entry or an addition to an entry to the log within two business days, as defined under paragraph (a) of this section, of the report of the information to the campus police or the campus security department, unless that disclosure is prohibited by law or would jeopardize the confidentiality of the victim.


(3)(i) An institution may withhold information required under paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section if there is clear and convincing evidence that the release of the information would—


(A) Jeopardize an ongoing criminal investigation or the safety of an individual;


(B) Cause a suspect to flee or evade detection; or


(C) Result in the destruction of evidence.


(ii) The institution must disclose any information withheld under paragraph (f)(3)(i) of this section once the adverse effect described in that paragraph is no longer likely to occur.


(4) An institution may withhold under paragraph (f)(2) and (3) of this section only that information that would cause the adverse effects described in those paragraphs.


(5) The institution must make the crime log for the most recent 60-day period open to public inspection during normal business hours. The institution must make any portion of the log older than 60 days available within two business days of a request for public inspection.


(g) *Emergency response and evacuation procedures.* An institution must include a statement of policy regarding its emergency response and evacuation procedures in the annual security report. This statement must include—


(1) The procedures the institution will use to immediately notify the campus community upon the confirmation of a significant emergency or dangerous situation involving an immediate threat to the health or safety of students or employees occurring on the campus;


(2) A description of the process the institution will use to—


(i) Confirm that there is a significant emergency or dangerous situation as described in paragraph (g)(1) of this section;


(ii) Determine the appropriate segment or segments of the campus community to receive a notification;


(iii) Determine the content of the notification; and


(iv) Initiate the notification system.


(3) A statement that the institution will, without delay, and taking into account the safety of the community, determine the content of the notification and initiate the notification system, unless issuing a notification will, in the professional judgment of responsible authorities, compromise efforts to assist a victim or to contain, respond to, or otherwise mitigate the emergency;


(4) A list of the titles of the person or persons or organization or organizations responsible for carrying out the actions described in paragraph (g)(2) of this section;


(5) The institution's procedures for disseminating emergency information to the larger community; and


(6) The institution's procedures to test the emergency response and evacuation procedures on at least an annual basis, including—


(i) Tests that may be announced or unannounced;


(ii) Publicizing its emergency response and evacuation procedures in conjunction with at least one test per calendar year; and


(iii) Documenting, for each test, a description of the exercise, the date, time, and whether it was announced or unannounced.


(h) *Missing student notification policies and procedures.* (1) An institution that provides any on-campus student housing facility must include a statement of policy regarding missing student notification procedures for students who reside in on-campus student housing facilities in its annual security report. This statement must—


(i) Indicate a list of titles of the persons or organizations to which students, employees, or other individuals should report that a student has been missing for 24 hours;


(ii) Require that any missing student report must be referred immediately to the institution's police or campus security department, or, in the absence of an institutional police or campus security department, to the local law enforcement agency that has jurisdiction in the area;


(iii) Contain an option for each student to identify a contact person or persons whom the institution shall notify within 24 hours of the determination that the student is missing, if the student has been determined missing by the institutional police or campus security department, or the local law enforcement agency;


(iv) Advise students that their contact information will be registered confidentially, that this information will be accessible only to authorized campus officials, and that it may not be disclosed, except to law enforcement personnel in furtherance of a missing person investigation;


(v) Advise students that if they are under 18 years of age and not emancipated, the institution must notify a custodial parent or guardian within 24 hours of the determination that the student is missing, in addition to notifying any additional contact person designated by the student; and


(vi) Advise students that the institution will notify the local law enforcement agency within 24 hours of the determination that the student is missing, unless the local law enforcement agency was the entity that made the determination that the student is missing.


(2) The procedures that the institution must follow when a student who resides in an on-campus student housing facility is determined to have been missing for 24 hours include—


(i) If the student has designated a contact person, notifying that contact person within 24 hours that the student is missing;


(ii) If the student is under 18 years of age and is not emancipated, notifying the student's custodial parent or guardian and any other designated contact person within 24 hours that the student is missing; and


(iii) Regardless of whether the student has identified a contact person, is above the age of 18, or is an emancipated minor, informing the local law enforcement agency that has jurisdiction in the area within 24 hours that the student is missing.


(i) [Reserved]


(j) *Programs to prevent dating violence, domestic violence, sexual assault, and stalking.* As required by paragraph (b)(11) of this section, an institution must include in its annual security report a statement of policy that addresses the institution's programs to prevent dating violence, domestic violence, sexual assault, and stalking.


(1) The statement must include—


(i) A description of the institution's primary prevention and awareness programs for all incoming students and new employees, which must include—


(A) A statement that the institution prohibits the crimes of dating violence, domestic violence, sexual assault, and stalking, as those terms are defined in paragraph (a) of this section;


(B) The definition of “dating violence,” “domestic violence,” “sexual assault,” and “stalking” in the applicable jurisdiction;


(C) The definition of “consent,” in reference to sexual activity, in the applicable jurisdiction;


(D) A description of safe and positive options for bystander intervention;


(E) Information on risk reduction; and


(F) The information described in paragraphs (b)(11) and (k)(2) of this section; and


(ii) A description of the institution's ongoing prevention and awareness campaigns for students and employees, including information described in paragraph (j)(1)(i)(A) through (F) of this section.


(2) For the purposes of this paragraph (j)—


(i) *Awareness programs* means community-wide or audience-specific programming, initiatives, and strategies that increase audience knowledge and share information and resources to prevent violence, promote safety, and reduce perpetration.


(ii) *Bystander intervention* means safe and positive options that may be carried out by an individual or individuals to prevent harm or intervene when there is a risk of dating violence, domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking. Bystander intervention includes recognizing situations of potential harm, understanding institutional structures and cultural conditions that facilitate violence, overcoming barriers to intervening, identifying safe and effective intervention options, and taking action to intervene.


(iii) *Ongoing prevention and awareness campaigns* means programming, initiatives, and strategies that are sustained over time and focus on increasing understanding of topics relevant to and skills for addressing dating violence, domestic violence, sexual assault, and stalking, using a range of strategies with audiences throughout the institution and including information described in paragraph (j)(1)(i)(A) through (F) of this section.


(iv) *Primary prevention programs* means programming, initiatives, and strategies informed by research or assessed for value, effectiveness, or outcome that are intended to stop dating violence, domestic violence, sexual assault, and stalking before they occur through the promotion of positive and healthy behaviors that foster healthy, mutually respectful relationships and sexuality, encourage safe bystander intervention, and seek to change behavior and social norms in healthy and safe directions.


(v) *Risk reduction* means options designed to decrease perpetration and bystander inaction, and to increase empowerment for victims in order to promote safety and to help individuals and communities address conditions that facilitate violence.


(3) An institution's programs to prevent dating violence, domestic violence, sexual assault, and stalking must include, at a minimum, the information described in paragraph (j)(1) of this section.


(k) *Procedures for institutional disciplinary action in cases of alleged dating violence, domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking.* As required by paragraph (b)(11)(vi) of this section, an institution must include in its annual security report a clear statement of policy that addresses the procedures for institutional disciplinary action in cases of alleged dating violence, domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking, as defined in paragraph (a) of this section, and that—


(1)(i) Describes each type of disciplinary proceeding used by the institution; the steps, anticipated timelines, and decision-making process for each type of disciplinary proceeding; how to file a disciplinary complaint; and how the institution determines which type of proceeding to use based on the circumstances of an allegation of dating violence, domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking;


(ii) Describes the standard of evidence that will be used during any institutional disciplinary proceeding arising from an allegation of dating violence, domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking;


(iii) Lists all of the possible sanctions that the institution may impose following the results of any institutional disciplinary proceeding for an allegation of dating violence, domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking; and


(iv) Describes the range of protective measures that the institution may offer to the victim following an allegation of dating violence, domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking;


(2) Provides that the proceedings will—


(i) Include a prompt, fair, and impartial process from the initial investigation to the final result;


(ii) Be conducted by officials who, at a minimum, receive annual training on the issues related to dating violence, domestic violence, sexual assault, and stalking and on how to conduct an investigation and hearing process that protects the safety of victims and promotes accountability;


(iii) Provide the accuser and the accused with the same opportunities to have others present during any institutional disciplinary proceeding, including the opportunity to be accompanied to any related meeting or proceeding by the advisor of their choice;


(iv) Not limit the choice of advisor or presence for either the accuser or the accused in any meeting or institutional disciplinary proceeding; however, the institution may establish restrictions regarding the extent to which the advisor may participate in the proceedings, as long as the restrictions apply equally to both parties; and


(v) Require simultaneous notification, in writing, to both the accuser and the accused, of—


(A) The result of any institutional disciplinary proceeding that arises from an allegation of dating violence, domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking;


(B) The institution's procedures for the accused and the victim to appeal the result of the institutional disciplinary proceeding, if such procedures are available;


(C) Any change to the result; and


(D) When such results become final.


(3) For the purposes of this paragraph (k)—


(i) A prompt, fair, and impartial proceeding includes a proceeding that is—


(A) Completed within reasonably prompt timeframes designated by an institution's policy, including a process that allows for the extension of timeframes for good cause with written notice to the accuser and the accused of the delay and the reason for the delay;


(B) Conducted in a manner that—


(*1*) Is consistent with the institution's policies and transparent to the accuser and accused;


(*2*) Includes timely notice of meetings at which the accuser or accused, or both, may be present; and


(*3*) Provides timely and equal access to the accuser, the accused, and appropriate officials to any information that will be used during informal and formal disciplinary meetings and hearings; and


(C) Conducted by officials who do not have a conflict of interest or bias for or against the accuser or the accused.


(ii) *Advisor* means any individual who provides the accuser or accused support, guidance, or advice.


(iii) *Proceeding* means all activities related to a non-criminal resolution of an institutional disciplinary complaint, including, but not limited to, factfinding investigations, formal or informal meetings, and hearings. *Proceeding* does not include communications and meetings between officials and victims concerning accommodations or protective measures to be provided to a victim.


(iv) *Result* means any initial, interim, and final decision by any official or entity authorized to resolve disciplinary matters within the institution. The result must include any sanctions imposed by the institution. Notwithstanding section 444 of the General Education Provisions Act (20 U.S.C. 1232g), commonly referred to as the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), the result must also include the rationale for the result and the sanctions.


(l) Compliance with paragraph (k) of this section does not constitute a violation of FERPA.


(m) *Prohibition on retaliation.* An institution, or an officer, employee, or agent of an institution, may not retaliate, intimidate, threaten, coerce, or otherwise discriminate against any individual for exercising their rights or responsibilities under any provision in this section.



---

[N] [79 FR 62783, Oct. 20, 2014]




