# ยง 201.20   Property improvement loan eligibility.

(a) *Borrower eligibility.* (1) To be eligible for a property improvement loan (other than a manufactured home improvement loan), the borrower shall have at least a one-half interest in one of the following:


(i) Fee simple title to the real property;


(ii) Lease of the real property for a fixed term which expires not less than six calendar months after the final maturity of the loan; or


(iii) A properly recorded land installment contract for the purchase of the real property.


(2) To be eligible for a manufactured home improvement loan, the borrower shall have at least a one-half interest in the manufactured home, and the home must be the principal residence of the borrower. 


(b) *Eligible use of the loan proceeds.* (1) The loan proceeds shall be used only for the purposes disclosed in the loan application. If the borrower plans to use a dealer or contractor to carry out the improvement work, the lender shall obtain a copy of a proposal or contract that describes in detail the work to be performed and the estimated or actual cost. If the borrower plans to carry out the improvement work without the services of a dealer or contractor, the borrower shall be required to furnish a detailed written description of the work to be performed, the materials to be furnished, and their estimated cost. 


(2) The loan proceeds shall be used only to finance property improvements that substantially protect or improve the basic livability or utility of the property. The Secretary will establish a list of items and activities that may not be financed with the proceeds of any property improvement loan. If a lender has any doubt as to the eligibility of any item or activity, it shall request a specific ruling by the Secretary before making a loan. 


(3) The loan proceeds shall only be used to finance property improvements that are started after loan approval, unless: 


(i) The prior approval of the Secretary is obtained for an exception to this requirement; or 


(ii) The property is located in a major disaster area declared by the President, and the lender determines that emergency action is needed to repair damage resulting from the disaster. 


(c) *Special pre-application requirements.* (1) Where the proceeds are to be used for an historic preservation loan, the proposed improvements shall be reviewed and approved by the State Historic Preservation Officer (or other person authorized by the Secretary of the Interior to make such reviews) prior to making application for a loan. The purpose of the review is to determine that (i) the structure is an historic residential structure listed on the National Register of Historic Places or certified by the Secretary of the Interior as conforming with National Register criteria, and (ii) the proposed improvements comply with criteria set by the Secretary of the Interior for the preservation of historic structures.


(2) Where the proceeds are to be used for a fire safety equipment loan, the proposed improvements shall be reviewed and approved by the State or local agency having primary jurisdiction over the fire safety requirements of health care facilities prior to making application for a loan.



---

[N] [50 FR 43523, Oct. 25, 1985, as amended at 56 FR 52430, Oct. 18, 1991; 61 FR 19797, May 2, 1996; 62 FR 65181, Dec. 10, 1997]




