# § 404.1265   Addition of interest to contributions—for wages paid prior to 1987.

(a) *Contributions not paid timely.* If a State fails to pay its contributions to the appropriate Federal Reserve bank or branch (see § 404.1262), when due under § 404.1249(a), we add interest on the unpaid amount of the contributions beginning with the date the payment was due, except as described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. Interest, if charged, begins with the due date even if it is a weekend, legal holiday or Federal nonwork day. Interest is added at the rate prescribed in section 218(j) of the Act as it read prior to the enactment of Pub. L. 99-509.


(b) *Method of making adjustment.* (1) If a State shall file a contribution return and shall accompany such return with payment of contributions due and payable as reported on such return in accordance with § 404.1249 but the amount of the contributions reported and paid is less than the correct amount of contributions due and payable and the underpayment of contributions is attributable to an error in computing the contributions (other than an error in applying the rate of contributions in effect at the time the wages were paid), the State shall adjust the underpayment by reporting the additional amount due by reason of such underpayment either as an adjustment of total contributions due with the first wage report filed after notification of the underpayment by the Social Security Administration, or as a single adjustment of total contributions due with any contribution return filed prior to the filing of such wage report.


(2) If an underpayment of contributions is due to an underreporting of or a failure to report one or more employees:


(i) Where the underreporting or failure to report has been ascertained by the State, the State may cause an adjustment by filing a report within 30 days after ascertainment of the error by the State;


(ii) Where the underreporting or failure to report has been ascertained by the Social Security Administration, a notification of underpayment shall be forwarded to the State, and the State may cause an adjustment of the underpayment by returning to the Social Security Administration, within 30 days from the date of the notification, a copy of the notification of underpayment and the State's corrected report. The report shall show the amount of wages, if any, erroneously reported for the reporting period and the correct amount of wages that should have been reported and the identification number of the State or the political subdivision for each employee who was omitted or erroneously reported. The filing to correct an underreporting of or a failure to report one or more employees' wages shall not constitute an adjustment under this section unless the wages were erroneously omitted or erroneously reported.


(c) *Payment.* The amount of each underpayment adjusted in accordance with this section shall be paid to the Federal Reserve Bank, or branch thereof, serving the district in which the State is located, without interest, at the time of reporting the adjustment; except that where any amounts due with respect to such an adjustment had been paid in error to IRS and a refund thereof timely requested from, or instituted by, IRS, the amount of underpayment adjusted in accordance with this section, plus any interest paid by IRS on the amount of such underpayment, shall be paid to the Federal Reserve Bank, or branch thereof, serving the district in which the State is located, at the time of reporting the adjustment or within 30 days after the date of issuance by IRS of the refund of the erroneous payments, whichever is later. Except as provided in the preceding sentence of this paragraph, if an adjustment is reported pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, but the amount thereof is not paid when due, interest thereafter accrues.


(d) *Verifying contributions paid against reported wages.* We check the computation of contributions to verify that a State has paid the correct amount of contributions on the wages it reports for a calendar year (see § 404.1249(b)(2)). If we determine that a State paid less than the amount of contributions due for that year, we add interest to the amount of the underpayment. We would add interest beginning with the date the unpaid contributions were initially due to the date those contributions are paid. However, if the total amount of the underpayment is 5 percent or less than 5 percent of the contributions due for a calendar year based upon the State's wage report and the State deposits the underpaid amount within 30 days after the date of our notification to the State of the amount due, the State may request that the interest on the underpaid amount be waived for good cause. This request must be made within 30 days of our notification to the State of the amount due. Such requests will be evaluated on an individual basis. The evaluation will include, but not be limited to, consideration of such factors as the circumstances causing the late payment, the State's past record of late payments and the amount involved.


(e) *Due date is on a weekend, legal holiday or Federal nonworkday.* If the last day of the 30-day periods specified in paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section is on a weekend, legal holiday or Federal nonworkday, the State shall make the required deposit or request for waiver of payment of interest on the next Federal workday.



---

[N] [53 FR 32976, Aug. 29, 1988, as amended at 66 FR 28836, May 25, 2001] 




