# ยง 760.2   Definitions.

For purposes of this subject, the following terms shall have the meanings specified:


*Affected farmer* means a person who produces whole milk which is removed from the commercial market any time from:


(1) Pursuant to the direction of a public agency because of the detection of pesticide residues in such whole milk by tests made by a public agency or under a testing program deemed adequate for the purpose by a public agency, or


(2) Pursuant to the direction of a public agency because of the detection of other residues of chemicals or toxic substances residues, or contamination from nuclear radiation or fallout in such whole milk by tests made by a public agency or under a testing program deemed adequate for the purpose by a public agency.


*Affected manufacturer* means a person who manufactures dairy products which are removed from the commercial market pursuant to the direction of a public agency because of the detection of pesticide residue in such dairy products by tests made by a public agency or under a testing program deemed adequate for the purpose by a public agency.


*Application period* means any period during which an affected farmer's whole milk is removed from the commercial market pursuant to direction of a public agency for a reason specified in paragraph (k) of this section and for which application for payment is made.


*Base period* means the calendar month or 4-week period immediately preceding removal of milk from the market.


*Chemicals or Toxic Substances* means any chemical substance or mixture as defined in the Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2602).


*Commercial market* means (1) the market to which the affected farmer normally delivers his whole milk and from which it was removed because of detection therein of a residue of a violating substance(s) or (2) the market to which the affected manufacturer normally delivers his dairy products and from which they were removed because of detection therein of pesticide residue.




*Contaminated milk* means milk containing elevated levels of any violating substance that may affect public health based on tests made by the applicable public agency and resulting in the removal of the milk from the commercial market.








*County committee* means the FSA county committee.




*Depopulation* means, consistent with the American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA) 
1 definition, the rapid destruction of a population of cows with as much consideration given to the welfare of the animals as practicable.


*Deputy Administrator* means the Deputy Administrator for Farm Programs, FSA.


*FSA* means the Farm Service Agency, U.S. Department of Agriculture.


*Milk handler* means the marketing agency to or through which the affected dairy farmer marketed his whole milk at the time he was directed by the public agency to remove his whole milk from the commercial market.




*Not marketable* means no commercial market is available for affected cows to be slaughtered, processed, and marketed through the food chain system as determined by the Deputy Administrator.








*Nuclear Radiation or Fallout* means contamination from nuclear radiation or fallout from any source.


*Pay period* means (1) in the case of an affected farmer who markets his whole milk through a milk handler, the period used by the milk handler in settling with the affected farmer for his whole milk, usually biweekly or monthly, or (2) in the case of an affected farmer whose commercial market consists of direct retail sales to consumers, a calendar month.


*Payment subject to refund* means a payment which is made by a milk handler to an affected farmer, and which such farmer is obligated to refund to the milk handler.


*Person* means an individual, partnership, association, corporation, trust, estate, or other legal entity.


*Pesticide* means an economic poison which was registered pursuant to the provisions of the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 135 through 135k), and approved for use by the Federal Government.


*Public agency* means any Federal, State or local public regulatory agency.


*Removed from the commercial market* means (1) produced and destroyed or fed to livestock, (2) produced and delivered to a handler who destroyed it or disposed of it as salvage (such as separating whole milk, destroying the fat, and drying the skim milk), or (3) produced and otherwise diverted to other than the commercial market.


*Same loss* means the event or trigger that caused the milk to be removed from the commercial market. For example, if milk is contaminated, the original cause of the contamination was the trigger and any loss related to that contamination would be considered the same loss.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States or any officer or employee of the U.S. Department of Agriculture to whom he has delegated, or to whom he may hereafter delegate, authority to act in his stead.


*State committee* means the FSA State committee.




*Violating substance* means one or more of the following, as defined in this section: Pesticide, chemicals or toxic substances, or nuclear radiation or fallout.








*Whole milk* means milk as it is produced by cows.



---

[N] [43 FR 10535, Mar. 14, 1978, as amended by Amdt. 1, 44 FR 36360, July 22, 1979; 52 FR 17935, May 13, 1987; 53 FR 44001, Nov. 1, 1988; 56 FR 1358, Jan. 14, 1991; 61 FR 18485, Apr. 26, 1996; 71 FR 27190, May 10, 2006; 84 FR 28176, June 18, 2019; 86 FR 70702, Dec. 13, 2021]




