# § 68.170   Prevention program/Program 2.

(a) For each Program 2 process, the owner or operator shall provide in the RMP the information indicated in paragraphs (b) through (k) of this section. If the same information applies to more than one covered process, the owner or operator may provide the information only once, but shall indicate to which processes the information applies. 


(b) The five- or six-digit NAICS code that most closely corresponds to the process.


(c) The name(s) of the chemical(s) covered. 


(d) The date of the most recent review or revision of the safety information and a list of Federal or state regulations or industry-specific design codes and standards used to demonstrate compliance with the safety information requirement. 


(e) The date of completion of the most recent hazard review or update. 


(1) The expected date of completion of any changes resulting from the hazard review; 


(2) Major hazards identified; 


(3) Process controls in use; 


(4) Mitigation systems in use; 


(5) Monitoring and detection systems in use; 


(6) Changes since the last hazard review; and 


(7) Recommendations declined from natural hazard, power loss, and siting hazard evaluations and justifications.




(f) The date of the most recent review or revision of operating procedures. 


(g) The date of the most recent review or revision of training programs; 


(1) The type of training provided—classroom, classroom plus on the job, on the job; and 


(2) The type of competency testing used. 


(h) The date of the most recent review or revision of maintenance procedures and the date of the most recent equipment inspection or test and the equipment inspected or tested. 


(i) The date of the most recent compliance audit; the expected date of completion of any changes resulting from the compliance audit and identification of whether the most recent compliance audit was a third-party audit, pursuant to §§ 68.58 and 68.59; and findings declined from third-party compliance audits and justifications.




(j) The completion date of the most recent incident investigation and the expected date of completion of any changes resulting from the investigation.


(k) The date of the most recent change that triggered a review or revision of safety information, the hazard review, operating or maintenance procedures, or training. 



---

[N] [61 FR 31726, June 20, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 980, Jan. 6, 1999; 82 FR 4704, Jan. 13, 2017; 84 FR 69915, Dec. 19, 2019; 89 FR 17692, Mar. 11, 2024]








