# § 10.787   Goods re-entered after repair or alteration in Morocco.

(a) *General.* This section sets forth the rules that apply for purposes of obtaining duty-free treatment on goods returned after repair or alteration in Morocco as provided for in subheadings 9802.00.40 and 9802.00.50, HTSUS. Goods returned after having been repaired or altered in Morocco, whether or not pursuant to a warranty, are eligible for duty-free treatment, provided that the requirements of this section are met. For purposes of this section, “repairs or alterations” means restoration, addition, renovation, re-dyeing, cleaning, re-sterilizing, or other treatment which does not destroy the essential characteristics of, or create a new or commercially different good from, the good exported from the United States.


(b) *Goods not eligible for treatment.* The duty-free treatment referred to in paragraph (a) of this section will not apply to goods which, in their condition as exported from the United States to Morocco, are incomplete for their intended use and for which the processing operation performed in Morocco constitutes an operation that is performed as a matter of course in the preparation or manufacture of finished goods.


(c) *Documentation.* The provisions of § 10.8(a), (b), and (c) of this part, relating to the documentary requirements for goods entered under subheading 9802.00.40 or 9802.00.50, HTSUS, will apply in connection with the entry of goods which are returned from Morocco after having been exported for repairs or alterations and which are claimed to be duty free.



---

[N] [CBP Dec. 07-51, 72 FR 35651, June 29, 2007. Redesignated at CBP Dec. 08-29, 73 FR 45354, Aug. 5, 2008]




