# § 541.607   Regular updates to amounts of salary and compensation required.

(a) *Initial update*—(1) *Standard salary level.* Beginning on July 1, 2024, the amount required to be paid per week to an exempt employee on a salary or fee basis, as applicable, pursuant to § 541.600(a)(1) will be not less than $844.


(2) *Highly compensated employees.* Beginning on July 1, 2024, the amount required to be paid in total annual compensation to an exempt highly compensated employee pursuant to § 541.601(a)(1) will be not less than $132,964.


(b) *Future updates*—(1) *Standard salary level.* (i) As of July 1, 2027, and every 3 years thereafter, the amount required to be paid to an exempt employee on a salary or fee basis, as applicable, pursuant to § 541.600(a) will be updated to reflect current earnings data.


(ii) The Secretary will determine the future update amounts by applying the methodology in effect under § 541.600(a) at the time the Secretary issues the notice required by paragraph (b)(3) of this section to current earnings data.


(2) *Highly compensated employees.* (i) As of July 1, 2027, and every 3 years thereafter, the amount required to be paid in total annual compensation to an exempt highly compensated employee pursuant to § 541.601(a) will be updated to reflect current earnings data.


(ii) The Secretary will determine the future update amounts by applying the methodology used to determine the total annual compensation amount in effect under § 541.601(a) at the time the Secretary issues the notice required by paragraph (b)(3) of this section to current earnings data.


(3) *Notice.* (i) Not fewer than 150 days before each future update of the earnings requirements under paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section, the Secretary will publish a notice in the _Federal Register_ stating the updated amounts based on the most recent available 4 quarters of CPS MORG data, or its successor publication, as published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics.


(ii) No later than the effective date of the updated earnings requirements, the Wage and Hour Division will publish on its website the updated amounts for employees paid pursuant to this part.


(4) *Delay of updates.* A future update to the earnings thresholds under this section is delayed from taking effect for a period of 120 days if the Secretary has separately published a notice of proposed rulemaking in the _Federal Register,_ not fewer than 150 days before the date the update is set to take effect, proposing changes to the earnings threshold(s) and/or updating mechanism due to unforeseen economic or other conditions. The Secretary must state in the notice issued pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section that the scheduled update is delayed in accordance with this paragraph (b)(4). If the Secretary does not issue a final rule affecting the scheduled update to the earnings thresholds by the end of the 120-day extension period, the updated amounts published in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section will take effect upon the expiration of the 120-day period. The 120-day delay of a scheduled update under this paragraph will not change the effective dates for future updates of the earnings requirements under this section.



---

[N] [89 FR 32972, Apr. 26, 2024]








