# § 801.3   Definitions.

As used in this part:


*Automatic identification and data capture (AIDC)* means any technology that conveys the unique device identifier or the device identifier of a device in a form that can be entered into an electronic patient record or other computer system via an automated process.


*Center Director* means the Director of the Center for Devices and Radiological Health or the Director of the Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research, depending on which Center has been assigned lead responsibility for the device.


*Combination product* has the meaning set forth in § 3.2(e) of this chapter.


*Convenience kit* means two or more different medical devices packaged together for the convenience of the user.


*Device package* means a package that contains a fixed quantity of a particular version or model of a device.


*Expiration date* means the date by which the label of a device states the device must or should be used.


*FDA, we,* or *us* means the Food and Drug Administration.


*Finished device* means any device or accessory to any device that is suitable for use or capable of functioning.


*Global Unique Device Identification Database (GUDID)* means the database that serves as a repository of information to facilitate the identification of medical devices through their distribution and use.


*Human cells, tissues, or cellular or tissue-based product (HCT/P) regulated as a device* means an HCT/P as defined in § 1271.3(d) of this chapter that does not meet the criteria in § 1271.10(a) and that is also regulated as a device.


*Implantable device* means a device that is intended to be placed in a surgically or naturally formed cavity of the human body. A device is regarded as an *implantable device* for the purpose of this part only if it is intended to remain implanted continuously for a period of 30 days or more, unless the Commissioner of Food and Drugs determines otherwise in order to protect human health.


*Label* has the meaning set forth in section 201(k) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.


*Labeler* means:


(1) Any person who causes a label to be applied to a device with the intent that the device will be commercially distributed without any intended subsequent replacement or modification of the label; and


(2) Any person who causes the label of a device to be replaced or modified with the intent that the device will be commercially distributed without any subsequent replacement or modification of the label, except that the addition of the name of, and contact information for, a person who distributes the device, without making any other changes to the label, is not a modification for the purposes of determining whether a person is a labeler.


*Lot or batch* means one *finished device* or more that consist of a single type, model, class, size, composition, or software version that are manufactured under essentially the same conditions and that are intended to have uniform characteristics and quality within specified limits.


*Shipping container* means a container used during the shipment or transportation of devices, and whose contents may vary from one shipment to another.


*Specification* means any requirement with which a device must conform.


*Unique device identifier (UDI)* means an identifier that adequately identifies a device through its distribution and use by meeting the requirements of § 830.20 of this chapter. A unique device identifier is composed of:


(1) A *device identifier*—a mandatory, fixed portion of a UDI that identifies the specific version or model of a device and the labeler of that device; and


(2) A *production identifier*—a conditional, variable portion of a UDI that identifies one or more of the following when included on the label of the device:


(i) The lot or batch within which a device was manufactured;


(ii) The serial number of a specific device;


(iii) The expiration date of a specific device;


(iv) The date a specific device was manufactured;


(v) For an HCT/P regulated as a device, the distinct identification code required by § 1271.290(c) of this chapter.


*Universal product code (UPC)* means the product identifier used to identify an item sold at retail in the United States.


*Version or model* means all devices that have specifications, performance, size, and composition, within limits set by the labeler.



---

[N] [78 FR 58817, Sept. 24, 2013]




