# § 423.2046   Notice of an ALJ or attorney adjudicator decision.

(a) *Decisions on requests for hearing*—(1) *General rule.* Unless the ALJ or attorney adjudicator dismisses or remands the request for hearing, the ALJ or attorney adjudicator will issue a written decision that gives the findings of fact, conclusions of law, and the reasons for the decision.


(i) The decision must be based on evidence offered at the hearing or otherwise admitted into the record, and shall include independent findings and conclusions.


(ii) A copy of the decision should be mailed or otherwise transmitted to the enrollee at his or her last known address.


(iii) A copy of the written decision should also be provided to the IRE that issued the reconsideration determination, and to the Part D plan sponsor that issued the coverage determination or at-risk determination.


(2) *Content of the notice.* The decision must be provided in a manner calculated to be understood by an enrollee and must include—


(i) The specific reasons for the determination, including, to the extent appropriate, a summary of any clinical or scientific evidence used in making the determination;


(ii) The procedures for obtaining additional information concerning the decision; and


(iii) Notification of the right to appeal the decision to the Council, including instructions on how to initiate an appeal under this section.


(3) *Limitation on decision.* When the amount of payment for the Part D drug is an issue before the ALJ or attorney adjudicator, the ALJ or attorney adjudicator may make a finding as to the amount of payment due. If the ALJ or attorney adjudicator makes a finding concerning payment when the amount of payment was not an issue before the ALJ or attorney adjudicator, the Part D plan sponsor may independently determine the payment amount. In either of the aforementioned situations, an ALJ's or attorney adjudicator's decision is not binding on the Part D plan sponsor for purposes of determining the amount of payment due. The amount of payment determined by the Part D plan sponsor in effectuating the ALJ's or attorney adjudicator's decision is a new coverage determination under § 423.566.


(b) *Decisions on requests for review of an IRE dismissal*—(1) *General rule.* Unless the ALJ or attorney adjudicator dismisses the request for review of an IRE dismissal, or the dismissal is vacated and remanded, the ALJ or attorney adjudicator will issue a written decision affirming the IRE's dismissal. OMHA mails or otherwise transmits a copy of the decision to the enrollee.


(2) *Content of the notice.* The decision must be written in a manner calculated to be understood by an enrollee and must include—


(i) The specific reasons for the determination, including a summary of the evidence considered and applicable authorities;


(ii) The procedures for obtaining additional information concerning the decision; and


(iii) Notification that the decision is binding and is not subject to further review, unless reopened and revised by the ALJ or attorney adjudicator.


(c) *Recommended decision.* An ALJ or attorney adjudicator issues a recommended decision if he or she is directed to do so in the Council's remand order. An ALJ or attorney adjudicator may not issue a recommended decision on his or her own motion. The ALJ or attorney adjudicator mails a copy of the recommended decision to the enrollee at his or her last known address.



---

[N] [82 FR 5134, Jan. 17, 2017, as amended at 83 FR 16754, Apr. 16, 2018]




