# § 359.502   Procedures.

(a) *Notice.* The agency shall notify the career appointee in writing at least 30 calendar days before the effective date of the action. The notice shall advise the appointee of—


(1) The basis for the action;


(2) The appointee's placement rights under subpart G of this part—the position to which the appointee will be assigned shall be identified either in this advance notice or in a supplementary notice issued no later than 10 calendar days before the effective date of the action;


(3) The appointee's right to request an informal hearing from the Merit Systems Protection Board;


(4) The effective date of the removal action; and 


(5) When applicable, the appointee's eligibility for immediate retirement under 5 U.S.C. 8336(h) or 8414(a).


(b) *Informal hearing.* (1) A career appointee being removed from the SES under this section shall, at least 15 days before the effective date of the removal, be entitled, upon request, to an informal hearing before an official designated by the Merit Systems Protection Board. The appointee shall submit the request for an informal hearing to the Board. This request may be made at any time after the appointee has received the notice described in paragraph (a) of this section, but no later than 15 days before the effective date of action. The informal hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the regulations and procedures established by the Board. See 5 CFR 1201.141, Right to hearing, and 5 CFR 1201.142, Hearing procedures; referral of the record.


(2) Neither the granting nor the conduct of an informal hearing shall provide a basis for appeal to the Merit Systems Protection Board under 5 U.S.C. 7701. The removal action need not be delayed because of the granting of an informal hearing.




