# § 98.254   Monitoring and QA/QC requirements.

(a) Fuel flow meters, gas composition monitors, and heating value monitors that are associated with sources that use a CEMS to measure CO_2_ emissions according to subpart C of this part or that are associated with stationary combustion sources must meet the applicable monitoring and QA/QC requirements in § 98.34.


(b) All gas flow meters, gas composition monitors, and heating value monitors that are used to provide data for the GHG emissions calculations in this subpart for sources other than those subject to the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section shall be calibrated according to the procedures specified by the manufacturer, or according to the procedures in the applicable methods specified in paragraphs (c) through (g) of this section. In the case of gas flow meters, all gas flow meters must meet the calibration accuracy requirements in § 98.3(i). All gas flow meters, gas composition monitors, and heating value monitors must be recalibrated at the applicable frequency specified in paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section.


(1) You must recalibrate each gas flow meter according to one of the following frequencies. You may recalibrate at the minimum frequency specified by the manufacturer, biennially (every two years), or at the interval specified by the industry consensus standard practice used.


(2) You must recalibrate each gas composition monitor and heating value monitor according to one of the following frequencies. You may recalibrate at the minimum frequency specified by the manufacturer, annually, or at the interval specified by the industry standard practice used.


(c) For flare or sour gas flow meters and gas flow meters used to comply with the requirements in § 98.253(j), operate, calibrate, and maintain the flow meter according to one of the following. You may use the procedures specified by the flow meter manufacturer, or a method published by a consensus-based standards organization. Consensus-based standards organizations include, but are not limited to, the following: ASTM International (100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box CB700, West Conshohocken, Pennsylvania 19428-B2959, (800) 262-1373, *http://www.astm.org*), the American National Standards Institute (ANSI, 1819 L Street, NW., 6th floor, Washington, DC 20036, (202) 293-8020, *http://www.ansi.org*), the American Gas Association (AGA, 400 North Capitol Street, NW., 4th Floor, Washington, DC 20001, (202) 824-7000, *http://www.aga.org*), the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME, Three Park Avenue, New York, NY 10016-5990, (800) 843-2763, *http://www.asme.org*), the American Petroleum Institute (API, 1220 L Street, NW., Washington, DC 20005-4070, (202) 682-8000, *http://www.api.org*), and the North American Energy Standards Board (NAESB, 801 Travis Street, Suite 1675, Houston, TX 77002, (713) 356-0060, *http://www.api.org*).


(d) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, determine gas composition and, if required, average molecular weight of the gas using any of the following methods. Alternatively, the results of chromatographic or direct mass spectrometer analysis of the gas may be used, provided that the gas chromatograph or mass spectrometer is operated, maintained, and calibrated according to the manufacturer's instructions; and the methods used for operation, maintenance, and calibration of the gas chromatograph or mass spectrometer are documented in the written Monitoring Plan for the unit under § 98.3(g)(5).




(1) Method 18 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-6.


(2) ASTM D1945-03 Standard Test Method for Analysis of Natural Gas by Gas Chromatography (incorporated by reference, *see* § 98.7).


(3) ASTM D1946-90 (Reapproved 2006) Standard Practice for Analysis of Reformed Gas by Gas Chromatography (incorporated by reference, *see* § 98.7).


(4) GPA 2261-00 Analysis for Natural Gas and Similar Gaseous Mixtures by Gas Chromatography (incorporated by reference, *see* § 98.7).


(5) UOP539-97 Refinery Gas Analysis by Gas Chromatography (incorporated by reference, *see* § 98.7).


(6) ASTM D2503-92 (Reapproved 2007) Standard Test Method for Relative Molecular Mass (Molecular Weight) of Hydrocarbons by Thermoelectric Measurement of Vapor Pressure (incorporated by reference, see § 98.7).


(e) Determine flare gas higher heating value using any of the following methods. Alternatively, the results of chromatographic analysis of the gas may be used, provided that the gas chromatograph is operated, maintained, and calibrated according to the manufacturer's instructions; and the methods used for operation, maintenance, and calibration of the gas chromatograph are documented in the written Monitoring Plan for the unit under § 98.3(g)(5).






(1) ASTM D4809-06 Standard Test Method for Heat of Combustion of Liquid Hydrocarbon Fuels by Bomb Calorimeter (Precision Method) (incorporated by reference, *see* § 98.7).


(2) ASTM D240-02 (Reapproved 2007) Standard Test Method for Heat of Combustion of Liquid Hydrocarbon Fuels by Bomb Calorimeter (incorporated by reference, *see* § 98.7).


(3) ASTM D1826-94 (Reapproved 2003) Standard Test Method for Calorific (Heating) Value of Gases in Natural Gas Range by Continuous Recording Calorimeter (incorporated by reference, *see* § 98.7).


(4) ASTM D3588-98 (Reapproved 2003) Standard Practice for Calculating Heat Value, Compressibility Factor, and Relative Density of Gaseous Fuels (incorporated by reference, *see* § 98.7).


(5) ASTM D4891-89 (Reapproved 2006) Standard Test Method for Heating Value of Gases in Natural Gas Range by Stoichiometric Combustion (incorporated by reference, *see* § 98.7).


(f) For gas flow meters used to comply with the requirements in § 98.253(c)(2)(ii), install, operate, calibrate, and maintain each gas flow meter according to the requirements in 40 CFR 63.1572(c) and the following requirements.


(1) Locate the flow monitor at a site that provides representative flow rates. Avoid locations where there is swirling flow or abnormal velocity distributions due to upstream and downstream disturbances.


(2) [Reserved]


(3) Use a continuous monitoring system capable of correcting for the temperature, pressure, and moisture content to output flow in dry standard cubic feet (standard conditions as defined in § 98.6).


(g) For exhaust gas CO_2_/CO/O_2_ composition monitors used to comply with the requirements in § 98.253(c)(2), install, operate, calibrate, and maintain exhaust gas composition monitors according to the requirements in 40 CFR 60.105a(b)(2) or 40 CFR 63.1572(c) or according to the manufacturer's specifications and requirements.


(h)-(i) [Reserved]

(j) Determine the quantity of petroleum process streams using company records. These quantities include the quantity of coke produced per cycle, asphalt blown, quantity of crude oil plus the quantity of intermediate products received from off site, and the quantity of unstabilized crude oil received at the facility.


(k) Determine temperature or pressure of delayed coking unit vessel using process instrumentation operated, maintained, and calibrated according to the manufacturer's instructions.


(l) The owner or operator shall document the procedures used to ensure the accuracy of the estimates of fuel usage, gas composition, and heating value including but not limited to calibration of weighing equipment, fuel flow meters, and other measurement devices. The estimated accuracy of measurements made with these devices shall also be recorded, and the technical basis for these estimates shall be provided.



---

[N] [74 FR 56374, Oct. 30, 2009, as amended at 75 FR 79163, Dec. 17, 2010; 81 FR 89263, Dec. 9, 2016; 89 FR 31930, Apr. 25, 2024]










