# ยง 120.214   What conditions apply for variable interest rates?

A Lender may use a variable rate of interest for guaranteed loans under the following conditions:


(a) *Frequency.* The first change may occur on the first calendar day of the month following initial disbursement, using the base rate (see paragraph (c) of this section) in effect on the first business day of the month. After that, changes may occur no more often than monthly. 


(b) *Range of fluctuation.* The amount of fluctuation shall be equal to the movement in the base rate. The difference between the initial rate and the ceiling rate may be no greater than the difference between the initial rate and the floor rate. 


(c) *Base rate.* The base rate will be one of the following: the prime rate or the Optional Peg Rate. The prime rate will be that which is in effect on the first business day of the month, as printed in a national financial newspaper published each business day. SBA may from time to time permit the use of alternative base rate options that are widely adopted for small business commercial lending and will publish notice of such alternative options in the _Federal Register._ SBA publishes the Optional Peg Rate quarterly in the _Federal Register_.


(d) *Maximum Allowable Variable Interest Rates.* The maximum allowable variable interest rates are set forth below, with the initial maximum allowable rate for the loan determined as of the date SBA receives the loan application:


(1) For all 7(a) loans of $50,000 and less, the interest rate shall not exceed six and a half (6.5) percentage points over the base rate;


(2) For all 7(a) loans of more than $50,000 and up to and including $250,000, the maximum interest rate shall not exceed six (6.0) percentage points over the base rate;


(3) For all 7(a) loans of more than $250,000 and up to and including $350,000, the maximum interest rate shall not exceed four and a half (4.5) percentage points over the base rate; and


(4) For all 7(a) loans of more than $350,000, the maximum interest rate shall not exceed three (3.0) percentage points over the base rate.


(e) *Amortization.* Initial amortization of principal and interest may be recomputed and reassessed as interest rates fluctuate, as directed by SBA. With prior approval of SBA, the Lender may use certain other amortization methods, except that SBA does not allow balloon payments. 



---

[N] [61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 73 FR 67101, Nov. 13, 2008; 87 FR 38908, June 30, 2022]




