# § 410.134   Provider qualifications.

For Medicare Part B coverage of MNT, only a registered dietitian or nutrition professional may provide the services. “Registered dietitian or nutrition professional” means an individual who, on or after December 22, 2000:


(a) Holds a bachelor's or higher degree granted by a regionally accredited college or university in the United States (or an equivalent foreign degree) with completion of the academic requirements of a program in nutrition or dietetics accredited by an appropriate national accreditation organization recognized for this purpose.


(b) Has completed at least 900 hours of supervised dietetics practice under the supervision of a registered dietitian or nutrition professional.


(c) Is licensed or certified as a dietitian or nutrition professional by the State in which the services are performed. In a State that does not provide for licensure or certification, the individual will be deemed to have met this requirement if he or she is recognized as a “registered dietitian” by the Commission on Dietetic Registration or its successor organization, or meets the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.


(d) *Exceptions.* (i) A dietitian or nutritionist licensed or certified in a State as of December 21, 2000 is not required to meet the requirements of (a) and (b) of this section.


(ii) A “registered dietitian” in good standing, as recognized by the Commission of Dietetic Registration or its successor organization, is deemed to have met the requirements of (a) and (b) of this section.



---

[N] [66 FR 55331, Nov. 1, 2001; 67 FR 20684, Apr. 26, 2002]




