# ยง 1150.12   How will the Endowment use credit reporting agencies to collect its claims?

(a) The Endowment may report delinquent debts to appropriate credit reporting agencies by providing the following information: 


(1) A statement that the debt is valid and overdue; 


(2) The name, address, taxpayer identification number, and any other information necessary to establish the identity of the debtor; 


(3) The amount, status, and history of the debt; and 


(4) The program or pertinent activity under which the debt arose. 


(b) Before disclosing debt information to a credit reporting agency, the Endowment will: 


(1) Take reasonable action to locate the debtor if a current address is not available; 


(2) Provide the notice required under ยง 1150.5 if a current address is available; and 


(3) Obtain satisfactory assurances from the credit reporting agency that it complies with the Fair Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. 1681 *et seq.*) and other Federal laws governing the provision of credit information. 


(c) At the time debt information is submitted to a credit reporting agency, the Endowment will provide a written statement to the reporting agency that all required actions have been taken. In addition, the Endowment will, thereafter, ensure that the credit reporting agency is promptly informed of any substantive change in the conditions or amount of the debt, and promptly verify or correct information relevant to the debt. 


(d) If a debtor disputes the validity of the debt, the credit reporting agency will refer the matter to the appropriate Endowment official. The credit reporting agency will exclude the debt from its reports until the Endowment certifies in writing that the debt is valid. 


(e) The Endowment may disclose to a commercial credit bureau information concerning a commercial debt, including the following: 


(1) Information necessary to establish the name, address, and employer identification number of the commercial debtor; 


(2) The amount, status, and history of the debt; and 


(3) The program or pertinent activity under which the debt arose. 




