# § 1281.11   Bank housing goals.

(a) *Prospective mortgage purchase housing goal*—(1) *Target levels.* For each calendar year, the percentage of a Bank's AMA mortgages acquired during the calendar year that are for very low-income families, low-income families, or families in low-income areas must meet or exceed either:


(i) A target level of 20 percent; or


(ii) An alternative target level proposed by the Bank and approved by FHFA under paragraph (c) of this section.


(2) *Cap on low-income areas loans counted toward goal.* No more than 25 percent of the mortgages that are counted toward a Bank's achievement of the prospective mortgage purchase housing goal may be mortgages for families with incomes above 80 percent of area median income. Any purchases of mortgages for families with incomes above 80 percent of area median income in excess of the 25 percent cap shall be treated as mortgage purchases for purposes of the housing goals and shall be included in the denominator for the housing goal, but such mortgages shall not be included in the numerator in calculating a Bank's performance under the housing goal.


(b) *Small member participation housing goal.* For each calendar year, the percentage of a Bank's total AMA users that are community-based AMA users must meet or exceed one of the following:


(1) A target level of 50 percent;


(2) A percentage that is three percentage points greater than the percentage from the preceding calendar year; or


(3) An alternative target level proposed by the Bank and approved by FHFA under paragraph (c) of this section.


(c) *Alternative target levels*—(1) *Submission of Bank requests.* A Bank, upon approval of its board of directors, may submit a written request to FHFA for approval of different target levels for the prospective mortgage purchase housing goal, the small member participation housing goal, or both. A Bank's request under this paragraph must include proposed target levels for three consecutive years following the calendar year in which the request is submitted. A Bank is not required to propose the same target level for each of the three years.


(2) *Content of Bank request.* A Bank's request under paragraph (c)(1) of this section for an alternative target level must include a detailed explanation of:


(i) Why the target level for the goal in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, as applicable, is infeasible;


(ii) Why the Bank's proposed alternative target level is achievable; and


(iii) How the Bank's proposed alternative target level will meaningfully further affordable housing mortgage lending in its district.


(3) *Frequency of Bank requests*—(i) *Three-year period.* A Bank may not submit a request under paragraph (c)(1) of this section for an alternative target level more frequently than once every three years, except as provided in paragraphs (c)(3)(ii) or (c)(3)(iii) of this section. The deadline for submitting a request under paragraph (c)(1) of this section is September 15 of the calendar year preceding the calendar year in which the alternative target level would apply. FHFA will review each Bank request that is received by the deadline and will notify the Bank in writing if its request is approved. If FHFA does not notify a Bank that its request is approved, the Bank will remain subject to the target levels in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, as applicable.


(ii) *Exception for changes in AMA products or programs.* FHFA may require a Bank to submit a request under paragraph (c)(1) of this section for an alternative target level to address discontinuation of an AMA product or program or approval of a new AMA product or program.


(iii) *Exception for special circumstances.* A Bank may submit a request under paragraph (c)(1) of this section for an alternative target level more frequently than once every three years if warranted given economic, operational, or other circumstances.


(4) *Public comment.* FHFA will publish each request that is submitted under paragraph (c)(1) of this section for an alternative target level on FHFA's public website for a period of at least 30 days, to provide the public an opportunity to comment on the request. FHFA will publish each request without redactions or other changes, except that FHFA will not publish any confidential or proprietary material. A Bank must submit any material supporting its request under paragraph (c)(1) of this section that it considers to be confidential or proprietary as a separate document, clearly designated as confidential or proprietary.



---

[N] [85 FR 38051, June 25, 2020]




