# § 721.9500   Silane, (1,1-dimethylethoxy) dimethoxy(2-methyl propyl)-.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance silane, (1,1-dimethylethoxy) dimethoxy (2-methylpropyl)- (PMN P-89-906) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(4), (a)(5)(iv) through (a)(5)(vii), (a)(6)(i) through (a)(6)(vi), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c). 


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), (f), (g)(1)(ii), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv), and (g)(5). 


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(q).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* The following recordkeeping requirements are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance, as specified in § 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g), (h), and (i).


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.



---

[N] [55 FR 46775, Nov. 6, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, 29947, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993] 




