# ยง 605.19   Continuation funding and reporting requirements.

(a) A recipient shall periodically report to DOE on the project's progress in meeting the project objectives of the award. The following types of reports shall be used:


(1) *Progress reports.* After issuance of an initial award and if future support is recommended, recipients must submit a satisfactory progress report in order to receive continuation awards for the remainder of the project period. The original and two copies of the required report (generally not to exceed two pages per project or task) must be submitted to the SC program manager 90 days prior to the anticipated continuation funding date and contain the following information: on the first page, provide the project title, principal investigator/project director name, period of time report covers, name and address of recipient organization, DOE award number, the amount of unexpended funds, if any, that are anticipated to be left at the end of the current budget period, and if the amount exceeds 10 percent of the funds available for the budget period, provide information as to why the excess funds are anticipated to be available and how they will be used in the next budget period. Report should state whether aims have changed from original application and if they have, provided revised aims. Include results of work to date. Emphasize findings and their significance to the field, and any real or anticipated problems. A completed budget page must be submitted with the continuation progress report when a change to anticipated future costs will exceed 25 percent of the original recommended future budget. 


(2) *Notice of Energy R&D Project.* A Notice of Energy R&D Project, DOE Form 1430.22, which summarizes the purpose and scope of the project, must be submitted in accordance with the Distribution and Schedule of Documents set forth at the end of this section. Copies of the form may be obtained from a DOE Contracting Office.


(3) *Special reports.* The recipient shall report the following events to DOE as soon after they occur as possible:


(i) Problems, delays, or adverse conditions which will materially affect the ability to attain project objectives, or prevent the meeting of time schedules and goals. The report must describe the remedial action the recipient has taken or plans to take and any action DOE should take to alleviate the problems. 


(ii) Favorable developments or events which enable meeting time schedules and goals sooner or at less cost than anticipated or producing more beneficial results than originally projected. 


(4) *Final report.* A final report summarizing the entire investigation must be submitted by the recipient within 90 days after the final project period ends or the award is terminated. Satisfactory completion of an award will be contingent upon the receipt of this report. The final report shall follow the same outline as a progress report. Manuscripts prepared for publication should be appended. 


(5) *Financial status report (FSR) (OMB No. 0348-0039).* The FSR is required within 90 days after completion of each budget period; for budget periods exceeding 12 months, an FSR is also required within 90 days after this first 12 months unless waived by the Contracting Officer. 


(b) DOE may extend the deadline date for any report if the recipient submits a written request before the deadline which adequately justifies an extension. 


(c) A table summarizing the various types of reports, time for submission, number of copies is set forth below. The schedule of reports shall be as prescribed in this table, unless the award document specifies otherwise.


(d) *DOE review of performance.* DOE or its authorized representatives may make site visits, at any reasonable time, to review the project. DOE may provide such technical assistance as may be requested. 


(e) *Subrecipient progress reporting.* Recipients may place progress reporting requirements on a subrecipient consistent with the provisions of this section. 



---

[N] [57 FR 40583, Sept. 3, 1992, as amended at 79 FR 76047, Dec. 19, 2014]




