# § 63.2535   What compliance options do I have if part of my plant is subject to both this subpart and another subpart?

For any equipment, emission stream, or wastewater stream not subject to § 63.2493 but subject to other provisions of both this subpart and another subpart, you may elect to comply only with the provisions as specified in paragraphs (a) through (l) of this section. You also must identify the subject equipment, emission stream, or wastewater stream, and the provisions with which you will comply, in your notification of compliance status report required by § 63.2520(d).


(a) *Compliance with other subparts of this part 63.* (1) If you have an MCPU that includes a batch process vent that also is part of a CMPU as defined in subparts F and G of this part 63, you must comply with the emission limits; operating limits; work practice standards; and the compliance, monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements for batch process vents in this subpart, and you must continue to comply with the requirements in subparts F, G, and H of this part 63 that are applicable to the CMPU and associated equipment.


(2) After the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445, at an offsite reloading or cleaning facility subject to § 63.1253(f), as referenced from § 63.2470(e), compliance with the monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting provisions of any other subpart of this part 63 constitutes compliance with the monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting provisions of § 63.1253(f)(7)(ii) or § 63.1253(f)(7)(iii). You must identify in your notification of compliance status report required by § 63.2520(d) the subpart of this part 63 with which the owner or operator of the offsite reloading or cleaning facility complies.


(b) *Compliance with 40 CFR parts 264 and 265, subparts AA, BB, and/or CC.* (1) After the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445, if a control device that you use to comply with this subpart is also subject to monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements in 40 CFR part 264, subpart AA, BB, or CC; or the monitoring and recordkeeping requirements in 40 CFR part 265, subpart AA, BB, or CC; and you comply with the periodic reporting requirements under 40 CFR part 264, subpart AA, BB, or CC that would apply to the device if your facility had final-permitted status, you may elect to comply either with the monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements of this subpart; or with the monitoring and recordkeeping requirements in 40 CFR part 264 or 265 and the reporting requirements in 40 CFR part 264, as described in this paragraph (b)(1), which constitute compliance with the monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements of this subpart. If you elect to comply with the monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements in 40 CFR parts 264 and/or 265, you must report the information described in § 63.2520(e). 


(2) After the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445, if you have an affected source with equipment that is also subject to 40 CFR part 264, subpart BB, or to 40 CFR part 265, subpart BB, then compliance with the recordkeeping and reporting requirements of 40 CFR parts 264 and/or 265 may be used to comply with the recordkeeping and reporting requirements of this subpart, to the extent that the requirements of 40 CFR parts 264 and/or 265 duplicate the requirements of this subpart. 


(c) *Compliance with 40 CFR part 60, subpart Kb and 40 CFR part 61, subpart Y.* After the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445, you are in compliance with the provisions of this subpart FFFF for any storage tank that is assigned to an MCPU and that is both controlled with a floating roof and in compliance with the provisions of either 40 CFR part 60, subpart Kb, or 40 CFR part 61, subpart Y. You are in compliance with this subpart FFFF if you have a storage tank with a fixed roof, closed-vent system, and control device in compliance with the provisions of either 40 CFR part 60, subpart Kb, or 40 CFR part 61, subpart Y, except that you must comply with the monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements in this subpart FFFF. Alternatively, if a storage tank assigned to an MCPU is subject to control under 40 CFR part 60, subpart Kb, or 40 CFR part 61, subpart Y, you may elect to comply only with the requirements for Group 1 storage tanks in this subpart FFFF. 


(d) *Compliance with subpart I, GGG, or MMM of this part.* After the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445, if you have an affected source with equipment subject to subpart I, GGG, or MMM of this part, you may elect to comply with the provisions of subpart H, GGG, or MMM of this part, respectively, for all such equipment, except the affirmative defense requirements in subparts GGG and MMM no longer apply.


(e) *Compliance with subpart GGG of this part 63 for wastewater.* After the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445, if you have an affected source subject to this subpart and you have an affected source that generates wastewater streams that meet the applicability thresholds specified in § 63.1256, you may elect to comply with the provisions of this subpart FFFF for all such wastewater streams. 


(f) *Compliance with subpart MMM of this part 63 for wastewater.* After the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445, if you have an affected source subject to this subpart, and you have an affected source that generates wastewater streams that meet the applicability thresholds specified in § 63.1362(d), you may elect to comply with the provisions of this subpart FFFF for all such wastewater streams (except that the 99 percent reduction requirement for streams subject to § 63.1362(d)(10) still applies). 


(g) *Compliance with other regulations for wastewater.* After the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445, if you have a Group 1 wastewater stream that is also subject to provisions in 40 CFR parts 260 through 272, you may elect to determine whether this subpart or 40 CFR parts 260 through 272 contain the more stringent control requirements (*e.g.,* design, operation, and inspection requirements for waste management units; numerical treatment standards; etc.) and the more stringent testing, monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements. Compliance with provisions of 40 CFR parts 260 through 272 that are determined to be more stringent than the requirements of this subpart constitute compliance with this subpart. For example, provisions of 40 CFR parts 260 through 272 for treatment units that meet the conditions specified in § 63.138(h) constitute compliance with this subpart. You must identify in the notification of compliance status report required by § 63.2520(d) the information and procedures that you used to make any stringency determinations. 


(h) *Compliance with 40 CFR part 60, subpart DDD, III, NNN, or RRR.* After the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445, if you have an MCPU that contains equipment subject to the provisions of this subpart that are also subject to the provisions of 40 CFR part 60, subpart DDD, III, NNN, or RRR, you may elect to apply this subpart to all such equipment in the MCPU. If an MCPU subject to the provisions of this subpart has equipment to which this subpart does not apply but which is subject to a standard in 40 CFR part 60, subpart DDD, III, NNN, or RRR, you may elect to comply with the requirements for Group 1 process vents in this subpart for such equipment. If you elect any of these methods of compliance, you must consider all total organic compounds, minus methane and ethane, in such equipment for purposes of compliance with this subpart, as if they were organic HAP. Compliance with the provisions of this subpart, in the manner described in this paragraph (h), will constitute compliance with 40 CFR part 60, subpart DDD, III, NNN, or RRR, as applicable. 


(i) *Compliance with 40 CFR part 61, subpart BB.* (1) After the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445, a Group 1 transfer rack, as defined in § 63.2550, that is also subject to the provisions of 40 CFR part 61, subpart BB, you are required to comply only with the provisions of this subpart. 


(2) After the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445, a Group 2 transfer rack, as defined in § 63.2550, that is also subject to the provisions of 40 CFR part 61, subpart BB, is required to comply with the provisions of either paragraph (l)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section. 


(i) If the transfer rack is subject to the control requirements specified in § 61.302 of 40 CFR part 61, subpart BB, then you may elect to comply with either the requirements of 40 CFR part 61, subpart BB, or the requirements for Group 1 transfer racks under this subpart FFFF. 


(ii) If the transfer rack is subject only to reporting and recordkeeping requirements under 40 CFR part 61, subpart BB, then you are required to comply only with the reporting and recordkeeping requirements specified in this subpart for Group 2 transfer racks, and you are exempt from the reporting and recordkeeping requirements in 40 CFR part 61, subpart BB. 


(j) *Compliance with 40 CFR part 61, subpart FF.* After the compliance date specified in § 63.2445, for a Group 1 or Group 2 wastewater stream that is also subject to the provisions of 40 CFR 61.342(c) through (h), and is not exempt under 40 CFR 61.342(c)(2) or (3), you may elect to comply only with the requirements for Group 1 wastewater streams in this subpart FFFF. If a Group 2 wastewater stream is exempted from 40 CFR 61.342(c)(1) under 40 CFR 61.342(c)(2) or (3), then you are required to comply only with the reporting and recordkeeping requirements specified in this subpart for Group 2 wastewater streams, and you are exempt from the requirements in 40 CFR part 61, subpart FF. 


(k) *Compliance with 40 CFR part 60, subpart VV or VVa, and 40 CFR part 61, subpart V.* Except as specified in paragraphs (k)(1) and (2) of this section, after the compliance date specified in § 63.2445, if you have an affected source with equipment that is also subject to the requirements of 40 CFR part 60, subpart VV or VVa, or 40 CFR part 61, subpart V, you may elect to apply this subpart to all such equipment. After the compliance date specified in § 63.2445, if you have an affected source with equipment to which this subpart does not apply, but which is subject to the requirements of 40 CFR part 60, subpart VV or VVa, or 40 CFR part 61, subpart V, you may elect to apply this subpart to all such equipment. If you elect either of the methods of compliance in this paragraph (k), you must consider all total organic compounds, minus methane and ethane, in such equipment for purposes of compliance with this subpart, as if they were organic HAP. Compliance with the provisions of this subpart, in the manner described in this paragraph (k), will constitute compliance with 40 CFR part 60, subpart VV or VVa, and 40 CFR part 61, subpart V, as applicable.


(1) The provision in § 63.2480(b)(4) does not apply to connectors in gas/vapor and light liquid service that are subject to monitoring under 40 CFR 60.482-11a if complying with the compliance option in this paragraph (k).


(2) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), equipment that must be controlled according to this subpart and subpart VVa of 40 CFR part 60 is required only to comply with the equipment leak requirements of this subpart, except you must also comply with the calibration drift assessment requirements specified at 40 CFR 60.485a(b)(2) if they are required to do so in subpart VVa of 40 CFR part 60. When complying with the calibration drift assessment requirements at 40 CFR 60.485a(b)(2), the requirement at 40 CFR 60.486a(e)(8)(v) to record the instrument reading for each scale used applies.


(l) *Applicability of process units included in a process unit group.* You may elect to develop and comply with the requirements for PUG in accordance with paragraphs (l)(1) through (3) of this section. 


(1) *Procedures to create process unit groups.* Develop and document changes in a PUG in accordance with the procedures specified in paragraphs (l)(1)(i) through (v) of this section. 


(i) Initially, identify an MCPU that is created from nondedicated equipment that will operate on or after November 10, 2003 and identify all processing equipment that is part of this MCPU, based on descriptions in operating scenarios. 


(ii) Add to the group any other nondedicated MCPU and other nondedicated process units expected to be operated in the 5 years after the date specified in paragraph (l)(1)(i) of this section, provided they satisfy the criteria specified in paragraphs (l)(1)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section. Also identify all of the processing equipment used for each process unit based on information from operating scenarios and other applicable documentation. 


(A) Each process unit that is added to a group must have some processing equipment that is also part of one or more process units in the group. 


(B) No process unit may be part of more than one PUG. 


(C) The processing equipment used to satisfy the requirement of paragraph (l)(1)(ii)(A) of this section may not be a storage tank or control device. 


(iii) The initial PUG consists of all of the processing equipment for the process units identified in paragraphs (l)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section. As an alternative to the procedures specified in paragraphs (l)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section, you may use a PUG that was developed in accordance with § 63.1360(h) as your initial PUG. 


(iv) Add process units developed in the future in accordance with the conditions specified in paragraphs (l)(1)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section. 


(v) Maintain records that describe the process units in the initial PUG, the procedure used to create the PUG, and subsequent changes to each PUG as specified in § 63.2525(i). Submit the records in reports as specified in § 63.2520(d)(2)(ix) and (e)(8). 


(2) *Determine primary product.* You must determine the primary product of each PUG created in paragraph (l)(1) of this section according to the procedures specified in paragraphs (l)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section. 


(i) The primary product is the type of product (*e.g.,* organic chemicals subject to § 63.2435(b)(1), pharmaceutical products subject to § 63.1250, or pesticide active ingredients subject to § 63.1360) expected to be produced for the greatest operating time in the 5-year period specified in paragraph (l)(1)(ii) of this section. 


(ii) If the PUG produces multiple types of products equally based on operating time, then the primary product is the type of product with the greatest production on a mass basis over the 5-year period specified in paragraph (l)(1)(ii) of this section. 


(iii) At a minimum, you must redetermine the primary product of the PUG following the procedure specified in paragraphs (l)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section every 5 years. 


(iv) You must record the calculation of the initial primary product determination as specified in § 63.2525(i)(3) and report the results in the notification of compliance status report as specified in § 63.2520(d)(8)(ix). You must record the calculation of each redetermination of the primary product as specified in § 63.2525(i)(5) and report the calculation in a compliance report submitted no later than the report covering the period for the end of the 5th year after cessation of production of the previous primary product, as specified in § 63.2520(e)(8). 


(3) *Compliance requirements.* (i) If the primary product of the PUG is determined according to paragraph (l)(2) of this section to be material described in § 63.2435(b)(1), then you must comply with this subpart for each MCPU in the PUG. You may also elect to comply with this subpart for all other process units in the PUG, which constitutes compliance with other part 63 rules. 


(ii) If the primary product of the PUG is determined according to paragraph (l)(2) of this section to be material not described in § 63.2435(b)(1), then you must comply with paragraph (l)(3)(ii)(A), (B), or (C) of this section, as applicable. 


(A) If the primary product is subject to subpart GGG of this part 63, then comply with the requirements of subpart GGG for each MCPU in the PUG. 


(B) If the primary product is subject to subpart MMM of this part 63, then comply with the requirements of subpart MMM for each MCPU in the PUG. 


(C) If the primary product is subject to any subpart in this part 63 other than subpart GGG or subpart MMM, then comply with the requirements of this subpart for each MCPU in the PUG. 


(iii) The requirements for new and reconstructed sources in the alternative subpart apply to all MCPU in the PUG if and only if the affected source under the alternative subpart meets the requirements for construction or reconstruction. 


(m) *Overlap of this subpart with other regulations for flares.* (1) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), flares that control ethylene oxide emissions from affected sources in ethylene oxide service as defined in § 63.2550 or are used to control emissions from MCPUs that produce olefins and polyolefins, subject to the provisions of 40 CFR 60.18 or 63.11, and used as a control device for an emission point subject to the emission limits and work practice standards in Tables 1, 2, 4 or 5 to this subpart are required to comply only with the provisions specified in § 63.2450(e)(5). At any time before the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), flares that are subject to the provisions of 40 CFR 60.18 or 63.11 and elect to comply with the requirements in § 63.2450(e)(5) are required to comply only with the provisions specified in this subpart. For purposes of compliance with this paragraph (m), “MCPUs that produces olefins or polyolefins” includes only those MCPUs that manufacture ethylene, propylene, polyethylene, and/or polypropylene as a product. By-products and impurities as defined in § 63.101, as well as wastes and trace contaminants, are not considered products.


(2) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), flares subject to § 63.987 and used as a control device for an emission point subject to the emission limits and work practice standards in Tables 1, 2, 4 or 5 to this subpart are only required to comply with § 63.2450(e)(5).


(3) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), flares subject to the requirements in subpart CC of this part and used as a control device for an emission point subject to the emission limits and work practice standards in Tables 1, 2, 4 or 5 to this subpart are only required to comply with the flare requirements in subpart CC of this part. This paragraph (m)(3) does not apply to multi-point pressure assisted flares.



---

[N] [68 FR 63888, Nov. 10, 2003, as amended at 71 FR 40337, July 14, 2006; 85 FR 49158, Aug. 12, 2020]




