# § 423.129   Resolution of complaints in complaints tracking module.

(a) *Definitions.* For the purposes of this regulation, the following terms have the following meanings:


*Assignment date* is the date CMS assigns a complaint to a particular Part D sponsor in the Complaints Tracking Module.


*Complaints Tracking Module* is an electronic system maintained by CMS to record and track complaints submitted to CMS about Medicare health and drug plans from beneficiaries and others.


*Immediate need complaint* is a complaint involving a situation that prevents a beneficiary from accessing care or a service for which they have an immediate need. This includes when the beneficiary currently has enough of the drug or supply to which they are seeking access to last for 2 or fewer days.


*Urgent complaint* is a complaint involving a situation that prevents a beneficiary from accessing care or a service for which they do not have an immediate need. This includes when the beneficiary currently has enough of the drug or supply to which they are seeking access to last for 3 to 14 days.


(b) *Timelines for complaint resolution*—(1) *Immediate need complaint*s. The Part D sponsor must resolve immediate need complaints within 2 calendar days of the assignment date.


(2) *Urgent complaints.* The Part D sponsor must resolve urgent complaints within 7 calendar days of the assignment date.


(3) *All other complaints.* The Part D sponsor must resolve all other complaints within 30 calendar days of the assignment date.


(4) *Extensions.* Except for immediate need complaints, urgent complaints, and any complaint that requires expedited treatment under § 423.564(f), if a complaint is also a grievance within the scope of § 423.564 and the requirements for an extension of the time to provide a response in § 423.564(e)(2) are met, the Part D sponsor may extend the timeline to provide a response.


(5) *Coordination with timeframes for grievances, PACE service determination requests, and PACE appeals.* When a complaint under this section is also a grievance within the scope of §§ 423.564 or 460.120, a PACE service determination request within the scope of § 460.121, or a PACE appeal within the definition of § 460.122, the Part D sponsor must comply with the shortest applicable timeframe for resolution of the complaint.


(c) *Timeline for contacting individual filing a complaint.* Regardless of the type of complaint received, the Part D sponsor must attempt to contact the individual who filed a complaint within 7 calendar days of the assignment date.



---

[N] [89 FR 30834, Apr. 23, 2024]






