# § 426.208   Appeals.

(a) *Grounds for administrative appeals.* A requester may appeal an initial determination of the Commission, including but not limited to a determination:


(1) To deny access to records in whole or in part (as provided in § 426.206(c));


(2) To assign a particular fee category to the requester (as provided in § 426.209(d));


(3) To deny a request for a reduction or waiver of fees (as provided in § 426.209(f));


(4) That no records could be located that are responsive to the request (as provided in § 426.206(c)); or


(5) To deny a request for expedited processing (as provided in § 426.205(c)).


(b) *Initiating appeals.* Requesters not satisfied with the FOIA Officer's decision may make a written request appealing the decision within 90 days of the date of the FOIA Officer's decision. Any appeal requests should be clearly marked with the words “Freedom of Information Act Appeal.” Appeals may be made through the Commission's email, *FOIA@inspire2serve.gov;* website, *www.inspire2serve.gov,* or through the mail, and may be addressed to: FOIA Appeals, National Commission on Military, National, and Public Service, 2530 Crystal Drive, Suite 1000, Box No. 63, Arlington, VA 22202. As there may be delays in mail delivery, it is advisable to send the request via email. The request should set out the name and contact information of the requester, specify the date of the initial request and the initial determination, and set forth why the appeal should be granted.


(c) *Adjudication of appeals.* Appeals will be processed in the order of their receipt. An appeal ordinarily will not be adjudicated if the request become a matter of FOIA litigation. Before seeking review by a court of an agency's adverse determination, a requester generally must first submit a timely administrative appeal.


(d) *Appeal decisions.* The Commission's Chair or his designee shall decide whether to affirm or reverse the initial determination (in whole or in part), and shall notify the requester of this decision in writing within 20 work days, pursuant to § 426.205(c). If the appeal is denied (in whole or in part), the Commission will notify the requester in writing of the decision, the reasons for the denial (including the FOIA exemptions relied upon), the name and title of the official responsible for the determination on appeal, and the provisions for judicial review and dispute resolution services offered by the OGIS. If the appeal is granted in full or in part, the Chief FOIA Officer will notify the requester in writing and promptly process the request.


(e) *Dispute resolution.* Dispute resolution is a voluntary process. If the Commission agrees to participate in the dispute resolution services provided by OGIS, it will actively engage as a partner to the process in an attempt to resolve the dispute. Requesters may seek dispute resolution by contacting the FOIA Public Liaison or OGIS at: Office of Government Information Services, National Archives and Records Administration, 8601 Adelphi Road, OGIS, College Park, MD 20740; email: *ogis@nara.gov;* telephone: (202) 741-5770; facsimile: (202) 741-5769; toll free telephone: (877) 684-6448.




