# § 63.2450   What are my general requirements for complying with this subpart?

(a) *General.* You must comply with paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) Except as specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, you must be in compliance with the emission limits and work practice standards in Tables 1 through 7 to this subpart at all times, except during periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction (SSM), and you must meet the requirements specified in §§ 63.2455 through 63.2490 (or the alternative means of compliance in § 63.2495, § 63.2500, or § 63.2505), except as specified in paragraphs (b) through (s) of this section. You must meet the notification, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements specified in §§ 63.2515, 63.2520, and 63.2525.


(2) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), paragraph (a)(1) of this section no longer applies. Instead, you must be in compliance with the emission limits and work practice standards in Tables 1 through 7 to this subpart at all times, and you must meet the requirements specified in §§ 63.2455 through 63.2490 (or the alternative means of compliance in § 63.2495, § 63.2500, or § 63.2505), except as specified in paragraphs (b) through (v) of this section. You must meet the notification, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements specified in §§ 63.2515, 63.2520, and 63.2525.


(b) *Determine halogenated vent streams.* You must determine if an emission stream is a halogenated vent stream, as defined in § 63.2550, by calculating the mass emission rate of halogen atoms in accordance with § 63.115(d)(2)(v). Alternatively, you may elect to designate the emission stream as halogenated. 


(c) *Requirements for combined emission streams.* When organic HAP emissions from different emission types (*e.g.,* continuous process vents, batch process vents, storage tanks, transfer operations, and waste management units) are combined, you must comply with the requirements of either paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section. 


(1) Comply with the applicable requirements of this subpart for each kind of organic HAP emissions in the stream (*e.g.,* the requirements of table 1 to this subpart for continuous process vents and the requirements of table 4 to this subpart for emissions from storage tanks). 


(2) Determine the applicable requirements based on the hierarchy presented in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (vi) of this section. For a combined stream, the applicable requirements are specified in the highest-listed paragraph in the hierarchy that applies to any of the individual streams that make up the combined stream. For example, if a combined stream consists of emissions from Group 1 batch process vents and any other type of emission stream, then you must comply with the requirements in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section for the combined stream; compliance with the requirements in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section constitutes compliance for the other emission streams in the combined stream. Two exceptions are that you must comply with the requirements in Table 3 to this subpart and § 63.2465 for all process vents with hydrogen halide and halogen HAP emissions, and recordkeeping requirements for Group 2 applicability or compliance are still required (*e.g.,* the requirement in § 63.2525(e)(3) and (4) to track the number of batches produced and calculate rolling annual emissions for processes with Group 2 batch process vents).


(i) The requirements of table 2 to this subpart and § 63.2460 for Group 1 batch process vents, including applicable monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting. 


(ii) The requirements of table 1 to this subpart and § 63.2455 for continuous process vents that are routed to a control device, as defined in § 63.981, including applicable monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting. 


(iii) The requirements of table 5 to this subpart and § 63.2475 for transfer operations, including applicable monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting. 


(iv) The requirements of table 7 to this subpart and § 63.2485 for emissions from waste management units that are used to manage and treat Group 1 wastewater streams and residuals from Group 1 wastewater streams, including applicable monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting. 


(v) The requirements of table 4 to this subpart and § 63.2470 for control of emissions from storage tanks, including applicable monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting. 


(vi) The requirements of table 1 to this subpart and § 63.2455 for continuous process vents after a recovery device including applicable monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting. 


(d) [Reserved] 


(e) *Requirements for control devices.* (1) Except when complying with § 63.2485 or paragraph (e)(7) of this section, if you reduce organic HAP emissions by venting emissions through a closed-vent system to any combination of control devices (except a flare) or recovery devices, you must meet the requirements of paragraph (e)(4) of this section, and the requirements of § 63.982(c) and the requirements referenced therein.


(2) Except as specified in paragraph (e)(5) of this section or except when complying with § 63.2485, if you reduce organic HAP emissions by venting emissions through a closed-vent system to a flare, you must meet the requirements of paragraph (e)(4) of this section, and the requirements of § 63.982(b) and the requirements referenced therein.


(3) Except as specified in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section, if you use a halogen reduction device to reduce hydrogen halide and halogen HAP emissions from halogenated vent streams, you must meet the requirements of paragraph (e)(4) of this section, and the requirements of § 63.994 and the requirements referenced therein. If you use a halogen reduction device before a combustion device, you must determine the halogen atom emission rate prior to the combustion device according to the procedures in § 63.115(d)(2)(v).


(i) Beginning on and after October 13, 2020, performance test reports must be submitted according to the procedures in § 63.2520(f).


(ii) If you use a halogen reduction device other than a scrubber, then you must submit procedures for establishing monitoring parameters to the Administrator as part of your precompliance report as specified in § 63.2520(c)(8).


(4) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), the referenced provisions specified in paragraphs (e)(4)(i) through (xvi) of this section do not apply when demonstrating compliance with subpart SS of this part.


(i) The phrase “Except for equipment needed for safety purposes such as pressure relief devices, low leg drains, high point bleeds, analyzer vents, and open-ended valves or lines” in § 63.983(a)(3) of subpart SS.


(ii) The second sentence of § 63.983(a)(5) of subpart SS.


(iii) The phrase “except during periods of start-up, shutdown and malfunction as specified in the referencing subpart” in § 63.984(a) of subpart SS.


(iv) The phrase “except during periods of start-up, shutdown, and malfunction as specified in the referencing subpart” in § 63.985(a) of subpart SS.


(v) The phrase “other than start-ups, shutdowns, or malfunctions” in § 63.994(c)(1)(ii)(D) of subpart SS.


(vi) Section 63.996(c)(2)(ii) of subpart SS.


(vii) The last sentence of § 63.997(e)(1)(i) of subpart SS.


(viii) Section 63.998(b)(2)(iii) of subpart SS.


(ix) The phrase “other than start-ups, shutdowns or malfunctions” in § 63.998(b)(5)(i)(A) of subpart SS.


(x) The phrase “other than a start-up, shutdown, or malfunction” from § 63.998(b)(5)(i)(B)(*3*) of subpart SS.


(xi) The phrase “other than start-ups, shutdowns or malfunctions” in § 63.998(b)(5)(i)(C) of subpart SS.


(xii) The phrase “other than a start-up, shutdown, or malfunction” from § 63.998(b)(5)(ii)(C) of subpart SS.


(xiii) The phrase “except as provided in paragraphs (b)(6)(i)(A) and (B) of this section” in § 63.998(b)(6)(i) of subpart SS.


(xiv) The second sentence of § 63.998(b)(6)(ii) of subpart SS.


(xv) Section 63.998(c)(1)(ii)(D), (E), (F), and (G) of subpart SS.


(xvi) Section 63.998(d)(3) of subpart SS.


(5) For any flare that is used to reduce organic HAP emissions from an MCPU, you may elect to comply with the requirements in this paragraph in lieu of the requirements of § 63.982(b) and the requirements referenced therein. However, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), paragraphs (e)(2) and (f) of this section no longer apply to flares that control ethylene oxide emissions from affected sources in ethylene oxide service as defined in § 63.2550 and flares used to control emissions from MCPUs that produce olefins or polyolefins. Instead, if you reduce organic HAP emissions by venting emissions through a closed-vent system to a steam-assisted, air-assisted, non-assisted, or pressure-assisted multi-point flare that controls ethylene oxide emissions from affected sources in ethylene oxide service as defined in § 63.2550 or is used to control emissions from an MCPU that produces olefins or polyolefins, then you must meet the applicable requirements for flares as specified in §§ 63.670 and 63.671 of subpart CC, including the provisions in Tables 12 and 13 to subpart CC of this part, except as specified in paragraphs (e)(5)(i) through (xiii) of this section. This requirement in this paragraph (e)(5) also applies to any flare using fuel gas from a fuel gas system, of which 50 percent or more of the fuel gas is derived from an MCPU that has processes and/or equipment in ethylene oxide service or that produces olefins or polyolefins, as determined on an annual average basis. For purposes of compliance with this paragraph (e)(5), the following terms are defined in § 63.641 of subpart CC: Assist air, assist steam, center steam, combustion zone, combustion zone gas, flare, flare purge gas, flare supplemental gas, flare sweep gas, flare vent gas, lower steam, net heating value, perimeter assist air, pilot gas, premix assist air, total steam, and upper steam. Also, for purposes of compliance with this paragraph (e)(5), “MCPUs that produces olefins or polyolefins” includes only those MCPUs that manufacture ethylene, propylene, polyethylene, and/or polypropylene as a product. By-products and impurities as defined in § 63.101, as well as wastes and trace contaminants, are not considered products.


(i) When determining compliance with the pilot flame requirements specified in § 63.670(b) and (g), substitute “pilot flame or flare flame” for each occurrence of “pilot flame.”


(ii) When determining compliance with the flare tip velocity and combustion zone operating limits specified in § 63.670(d) and (e), the requirement effectively applies starting with the 15-minute block that includes a full 15 minutes of the flaring event. You are required to demonstrate compliance with the velocity and NHVcz requirements starting with the block that contains the fifteenth minute of a flaring event. You are not required to demonstrate compliance for the previous 15-minute block in which the event started and contained only a fraction of flow.


(iii) Instead of complying with paragraph (o)(2)(i) of § 63.670 of subpart CC, you must develop and implement the flare management plan no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g).


(iv) Instead of complying with paragraph (o)(2)(iii) of § 63.670 of subpart CC, if required to develop a flare management plan and submit it to the Administrator, then you must also submit all versions of the plan in portable document format (PDF) to the EPA following the procedure specified in § 63.9(k), except any medium submitted through mail must be sent to the attention of the Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Manufacturing Sector Lead.


(v) Section 63.670(o)(3)(ii) of subpart CC and all references to § 63.670(o)(3)(ii) of subpart CC do not apply. Instead, the owner or operator must comply with the maximum flare tip velocity operating limit at all times.


(vi) Substitute “MCPU” for each occurrence of “petroleum refinery.”


(vii) Each occurrence of “refinery” does not apply.


(viii) If a pressure-assisted multi-point flare is used as a control device, then you must meet the following conditions:


(A) You are not required to comply with the flare tip velocity requirements in paragraph (d) and (k) of § 63.670 of subpart CC;


(B) You must comply with the NHVcz requirements in paragraph (e)(2) of § 63.670 of subpart CC;


(C) You must determine the 15-minute block average NHVvg using only the direct calculation method specified in in paragraph (l)(5)(ii) of § 63.670 of subpart CC;


(D) Instead of complying with paragraph (b) and (g) of § 63.670 of subpart CC, if a pressure-assisted multi-point flare uses cross-lighting on a stage of burners rather than having an individual pilot flame on each burner, then you must operate each stage of the pressure-assisted multi-point flare with a flame present at all times when regulated material is routed to that stage of burners. Each stage of burners that cross-lights in the pressure-assisted multi-point flare must have at least two pilots with at least one continuously lit and capable of igniting all regulated material that is routed to that stage of burners. Each 15-minute block during which there is at least one minute where no pilot flame is present on a stage of burners when regulated material is routed to the flare is a deviation of the standard. Deviations in different 15-minute blocks from the same event are considered separate deviations. The pilot flame(s) on each stage of burners that use cross-lighting must be continuously monitored by a thermocouple or any other equivalent device used to detect the presence of a flame;


(E) Unless you choose to conduct a cross-light performance demonstration as specified in this paragraph (e)(5)(viii)(E), you must ensure that if a stage of burners on the flare uses cross-lighting, that the distance between any two burners in series on that stage is no more than 6 feet when measured from the center of one burner to the next burner. A distance greater than 6 feet between any two burners in series may be used provided you conduct a performance demonstration that confirms the pressure-assisted multi-point flare will cross-light a minimum of three burners and the spacing between the burners and location of the pilot flame must be representative of the projected installation. The compliance demonstration must be approved by the permitting authority and a copy of this approval must be maintained onsite. The compliance demonstration report must include: A protocol describing the test methodology used, associated test method QA/QC parameters, the waste gas composition and NHVcz of the gas tested, the velocity of the waste gas tested, the pressure-assisted multi-point flare burner tip pressure, the time, length, and duration of the test, records of whether a successful cross-light was observed over all of the burners and the length of time it took for the burners to cross-light, records of maintaining a stable flame after a successful cross-light and the duration for which this was observed, records of any smoking events during the cross-light, waste gas temperature, meteorological conditions (*e.g.,* ambient temperature, barometric pressure, wind speed and direction, and relative humidity), and whether there were any observed flare flameouts; and


(F) You must install and operate pressure monitor(s) on the main flare header, as well as a valve position indicator monitoring system for each staging valve to ensure that the flare operates within the proper range of conditions as specified by the manufacturer. The pressure monitor must meet the requirements in Table 13 to subpart CC of this part.


(G) If a pressure-assisted multi-point flare is operating under the requirements of an approved alternative means of emission limitations, you must either continue to comply with the terms of the alternative means of emission limitations or comply with the provisions in paragraphs (e)(5)(viii)(A) through (F) of this section.


(ix) If you choose to determine compositional analysis for net heating value with a continuous process mass spectrometer, then you must comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (e)(5)(ix)(A) through (G) of this section.


(A) You must meet the requirements in § 63.671(e)(2). You may augment the minimum list of calibration gas components found in § 63.671(e)(2) with compounds found during a pre-survey or known to be in the gas through process knowledge.


(B) Calibration gas cylinders must be certified to an accuracy of 2 percent and traceable to National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) standards.


(C) For unknown gas components that have similar analytical mass fragments to calibration compounds, you may report the unknowns as an increase in the overlapped calibration gas compound. For unknown compounds that produce mass fragments that do not overlap calibration compounds, you may use the response factor for the nearest molecular weight hydrocarbon in the calibration mix to quantify the unknown component's NHVvg.


(D) You may use the response factor for n-pentane to quantify any unknown components detected with a higher molecular weight than n-pentane.


(E) You must perform an initial calibration to identify mass fragment overlap and response factors for the target compounds.


(F) You must meet applicable requirements in Performance Specification 9 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B, for continuous monitoring system acceptance including, but not limited to, performing an initial multi-point calibration check at three concentrations following the procedure in Section 10.1 and performing the periodic calibration requirements listed for gas chromatographs in Table 13 to subpart CC of this part, for the process mass spectrometer. You may use the alternative sampling line temperature allowed under Net Heating Value by Gas Chromatograph in Table 13 to subpart CC of this part.


(G) The average instrument calibration error (CE) for each calibration compound at any calibration concentration must not differ by more than 10 percent from the certified cylinder gas value. The CE for each component in the calibration blend must be calculated using Equation 1 to this paragraph (e)(5)(ix)(G).




(x) If you use a gas chromatograph or mass spectrometer for compositional analysis for net heating value, then you may choose to use the CE of NHV_measured_ versus the cylinder tag value NHV as the measure of agreement for daily calibration and quarterly audits in lieu of determining the compound-specific CE. The CE for NHV at any calibration level must not differ by more than 10 percent from the certified cylinder gas value. The CE for must be calculated using Equation 2 to this paragraph (e)(5)(x).


(xi) Instead of complying with paragraph (q) of § 63.670 of subpart CC, you must comply with the reporting requirements specified in § 63.2520(d)(3) and (e)(11).


(xii) Instead of complying with paragraph (p) of § 63.670 of subpart CC, you must keep the flare monitoring records specified in § 63.2525(m).


(xiii) You may elect to comply with the alternative means of emissions limitation requirements specified in paragraph (r) of § 63.670 of subpart CC in lieu of the requirements in paragraphs (d) through (f) of § 63.670 of subpart CC, as applicable. However, instead of complying with paragraph (r)(3)(iii) of § 63.670 of subpart CC, you must also submit the alternative means of emissions limitation request to the following address: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards, Sector Policies and Programs Division, U.S. EPA Mailroom (C404-02), Attention: Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Manufacturing Sector Lead, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703.


(6) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), the use of a bypass line at any time on a closed vent system to divert emissions subject to the requirements in Tables 1 through 7 to this subpart to the atmosphere or to a control device not meeting the requirements specified in Tables 1 through 7 to this subpart is an emissions standards deviation. You must also comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (e)(6)(i) through (v) of this section, as applicable:


(i) If you are subject to the bypass monitoring requirements of § 63.148(f) of subpart G, then you must continue to comply with the requirements in § 63.148(f) of subpart G and the recordkeeping and reporting requirements in §§ 63.148(j)(2) and (3) of subpart G, and § 63.148(i)(3) of subpart G, in addition to the applicable requirements specified in § 63.2485(q), the recordkeeping requirements specified in § 63.2525(n), and the reporting requirements specified in § 63.2520(e)(12).


(ii) If you are subject to the bypass monitoring requirements of § 63.172(j) of subpart H, then you must continue to comply with the requirements in § 63.172(j) of subpart H and the recordkeeping and reporting requirements in § 63.118(a)(3) and (4), and (f)(3) and (4) of subpart G, in addition to the applicable requirements specified in §§ 63.2480(f) and 63.2485(q), the recordkeeping requirements specified in § 63.2525(n), and the reporting requirements specified in § 63.2520(e)(12).


(iii) If you are subject to the bypass monitoring requirements of § 63.983(a)(3) of subpart SS, then you must continue to comply with the requirements in § 63.983(a)(3) of subpart SS and the recordkeeping and reporting requirements in §§ 63.998(d)(1)(ii) and 63.999(c)(2) of subpart SS, in addition to the requirements specified in § 63.2450(e)(4), the recordkeeping requirements specified in § 63.2525(n), and the reporting requirements specified in § 63.2520(e)(12).


(iv) If you are subject to the bypass monitoring requirements of § 65.143(a)(3) of this chapter, then you must continue to comply with the requirements in § 65.143(a)(3) and the recordkeeping and reporting requirements in §§ 65.163(a)(1) and 65.166(b) of this chapter; in addition to the applicable requirements specified in § 63.2480(f), the recordkeeping requirements specified in § 63.2525(n), and the reporting requirements specified in § 63.2520(e)(12).


(v) For purposes of compliance with this paragraph (e)(6), §§ 63.148(f)(3) of subpart G, and 63.172(j)(3) of subpart H, the phrase “Except for equipment needed for safety purposes such as pressure relief devices, low leg drains, high point bleeds, analyzer vents, and open-ended valves or lines” in § 63.983(a)(3) of subpart SS, and the phrase “Except for pressure relief devices needed for safety purposes, low leg drains, high point bleeds, analyzer vents, and open-ended valves or lines” in § 65.143(a)(3) of this chapter do not apply; instead, the exemptions specified in paragraphs (e)(6)(v)(A) and (B) of this section apply.


(A) Except for pressure relief devices subject to § 63.2480(e)(4), equipment such as low leg drains and equipment subject to the requirements specified in § 63.2480 are not subject to this paragraph (e)(6).


(B) Open-ended valves or lines that use a cap, blind flange, plug, or second valve and follow the requirements specified in 40 CFR 60.482-6(a)(2), (b), and (c) or follow requirements codified in another regulation that are the same as 40 CFR 60.482-6(a)(2), (b), and (c) are not subject to this paragraph (e)(6).


(7) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), if you reduce organic HAP emissions by venting emissions through a closed-vent system to an adsorber(s) that cannot be regenerated or a regenerative adsorber(s) that is regenerated offsite, then you must comply with paragraphs (e)(4) and (6) of this section, § 63.2470(c)(3), §§ 63.2520(d)(6) and (e)(13), § 63.2525(o), the requirements in § 63.983 including the requirements referenced therein, and you must install a system of two or more adsorber units in series and comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (e)(7)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) Conduct an initial performance test or design evaluation of the adsorber and establish the breakthrough limit and adsorber bed life.


(ii) Monitor the HAP or total organic compound (TOC) concentration through a sample port at the outlet of the first adsorber bed in series according to the schedule in paragraph (e)(7)(iii)(B) of this section. You must measure the concentration of HAP or TOC using either a portable analyzer, in accordance with Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, using methane, propane, isobutylene, or the primary HAP being controlled as the calibration gas or Method 25A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, using methane, propane, or the primary HAP being controlled as the calibration gas.


(iii) Comply with paragraph (e)(7)(iii)(A) of this section, and comply with the monitoring frequency according to paragraph (e)(7)(iii)(B) of this section.


(A) The first adsorber in series must be replaced immediately when breakthrough, as defined in § 63.2550(i), is detected between the first and second adsorber. The original second adsorber (or a fresh canister) will become the new first adsorber and a fresh adsorber will become the second adsorber. For purposes of this paragraph (e)(7)(iii)(A), “immediately” means within 8 hours of the detection of a breakthrough for adsorbers of 55 gallons or less, and within 24 hours of the detection of a breakthrough for adsorbers greater than 55 gallons. You must monitor at the outlet of the first adsorber within 3 days of replacement to confirm it is performing properly.


(B) Based on the adsorber bed life established according to paragraph (e)(7)(i) of this section and the date the adsorbent was last replaced, conduct monitoring to detect breakthrough at least monthly if the adsorbent has more than 2 months of life remaining, at least weekly if the adsorbent has between 2 months and 2 weeks of life remaining, and at least daily if the adsorbent has 2 weeks or less of life remaining.


(f) *Requirements for flare compliance assessments.* Except as specified in paragraph (e)(5) of this section, you must comply with paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) As part of a flare compliance assessment required in § 63.987(b), you have the option of demonstrating compliance with the requirements of § 63.11(b) by complying with the requirements in either § 63.11(b)(6)(i) or § 63.987(b)(3)(ii).


(2) If you elect to meet the requirements in § 63.11(b)(6)(i), you must keep flare compliance assessment records as specified in paragraphs (f)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) Keep records as specified in § 63.998(a)(1)(i), except that a record of the heat content determination is not required.


(ii) Keep records of the flare diameter, hydrogen content, exit velocity, and maximum permitted velocity. Include these records in the flare compliance report required in § 63.999(a)(2).


(g) *Requirements for performance tests.* The requirements specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (7) of this section apply instead of or in addition to the requirements specified in subpart SS of this part.


(1) Conduct gas molecular weight analysis using Method 3, 3A, or 3B in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter. 


(2) Measure moisture content of the stack gas using Method 4 in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter. 


(3) If the uncontrolled or inlet gas stream to the control device contains carbon disulfide, you must conduct emissions testing according to paragraph (g)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section. 


(i) If you elect to comply with the percent reduction emission limits in tables 1 through 7 to this subpart, and carbon disulfide is the principal organic HAP component (*i.e.,* greater than 50 percent of the HAP in the stream by volume), then you must use Method 18, or Method 15 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A) to measure carbon disulfide at the inlet and outlet of the control device. Use the percent reduction in carbon disulfide as a surrogate for the percent reduction in total organic HAP emissions. 


(ii) If you elect to comply with the outlet TOC concentration emission limits in Tables 1 through 7 to this subpart, and the uncontrolled or inlet gas stream to the control device contains greater than 10 percent (volume concentration) carbon disulfide, you must use Method 18 or Method 15 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, to separately determine the carbon disulfide concentration. Calculate the total HAP or TOC emissions by totaling the carbon disulfide emissions measured using Method 18 or 15 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, and the other HAP emissions measured using Method 18 or 25A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A.


(4) As an alternative to using Method 18, Method 25/25A, or Method 26/26A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, to comply with any of the emission limits specified in tables 1 through 7 to this subpart, you may use Method 320 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A. When using Method 320, you must follow the analyte spiking procedures of section 13 of Method 320, unless you demonstrate that the complete spiking procedure has been conducted at a similar source. 


(5) Section 63.997(c)(1) does not apply. For the purposes of this subpart, results of all initial compliance demonstrations must be included in the notification of compliance status report, which is due 150 days after the compliance date, as specified in § 63.2520(d)(1). If the initial compliance demonstration includes a performance test and the results are submitted electronically via CEDRI in accordance with § 63.2520(f), the process unit(s) tested, the pollutant(s) tested, and the date that such performance test was conducted may be submitted in the notification of compliance status report in lieu of the performance test results. The performance test results must be submitted to CEDRI by the date the notification of compliance status report is submitted.


(6) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), in lieu of the requirements specified in § 63.7(e)(1) of subpart A you must conduct performance tests under such conditions as the Administrator specifies based on representative performance of the affected source for the period being tested. Representative conditions exclude periods of startup and shutdown. You may not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. You must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and include in such record an explanation to support that such conditions represent normal operation. Upon request, you must make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.


(7) Comply with the requirements in § 63.2450(e)(4), as applicable.


(h) *Design evaluation.* To determine the percent reduction of a small control device that is used to comply with an emission limit specified in Table 1, 2, 3, or 5 to this subpart, you may elect to conduct a design evaluation as specified in § 63.1257(a)(1) instead of a performance test as specified in subpart SS of this part. You must establish the value(s) and basis for the operating limits as part of the design evaluation. For continuous process vents, the design evaluation must be conducted at maximum representative operating conditions for the process, unless the Administrator specifies or approves alternate operating conditions. For transfer racks, the design evaluation must demonstrate that the control device achieves the required control efficiency during the reasonably expected maximum transfer loading rate. Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(i), this paragraph (h) does not apply to process vents in ethylene oxide service as defined in § 63.2550.


(i) *Outlet concentration correction for combustion devices.* Except as specified in paragraph (i)(3) of this section, when § 63.997(e)(2)(iii)(C) requires you to correct the measured concentration at the outlet of a combustion device to 3-percent oxygen if you add supplemental combustion air, the requirements in either paragraph (i)(1) or (2) of this section apply for the purposes of this subpart.


(1) You must correct the concentration in the gas stream at the outlet of the combustion device to 3 percent oxygen if you add supplemental gases, as defined in § 63.2550, to the vent stream, or;


(2) You must correct the measured concentration for supplemental gases using Equation 1 in § 63.2460(c)(6); you may use process knowledge and representative operating data to determine the fraction of the total flow due to supplemental gas.


(3) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), paragraphs (i)(1) and (2) of this section no longer apply. Instead, when § 63.997(e)(2)(iii)(C) requires you to correct the measured concentration at the outlet of a combustion device to 3-percent oxygen if you add supplemental combustion air, you must follow the procedures in § 63.997(e)(2)(iii)(C) to perform the concentration correction, except you may also use Method 3A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2, to determine the oxygen concentration.


(j) *Continuous emissions monitoring systems.* Each continuous emissions monitoring system (CEMS) must be installed, operated, and maintained according to the requirements in § 63.8 of subpart A and paragraphs (j)(1) through (6) of this section.


(1) Each CEMS must be installed, operated, and maintained according to the applicable Performance Specification of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B, and the applicable Quality Assurance Procedures of 40 CFR part 60, appendix F, and according to paragraph (j)(2) of this section, except as specified in paragraph (j)(1)(i) of this section. For any CEMS meeting Performance Specification 8 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B, you must also comply with procedure 1 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix F. Locate the sampling probe or other interface at a measurement location such that you obtain representative measurements of emissions from the regulated source. For CEMS installed after August 12, 2020, conduct a performance evaluation of each CEMS within 180 days of installation of the monitoring system.


(i) If you wish to use a CEMS other than a Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy (FTIR) meeting the requirements of Performance Specification 15 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B, to measure hydrogen halide, other than hydrogen chloride, and halogen HAP or CEMS meeting the requirements of Performance Specification 18 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B, to measure hydrogen chloride before we promulgate a Performance Specification for such CEMS, you must prepare a monitoring plan and submit it for approval in accordance with the procedures specified in § 63.8 of subpart A.


(ii) [Reserved] 


(2) You must determine the calibration gases and reporting units for TOC CEMS in accordance with paragraph (j)(2)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section. 


(i) For CEMS meeting Performance Specification 9 or 15 requirements, determine the target analyte(s) for calibration using either process knowledge of the control device inlet stream or the screening procedures of Method 18 on the control device inlet stream. 


(ii) For CEMS meeting Performance Specification 8 used to monitor performance of a combustion device, calibrate the instrument on the predominant organic HAP and report the results as carbon (C1), and use Method 25A or any approved alternative as the reference method for the relative accuracy tests. 


(iii) For CEMS meeting Performance Specification 8 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B, used to monitor performance of a noncombustion device, determine the predominant organic HAP using either process knowledge or the screening procedures of Method 18 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-6, on the control device inlet stream, calibrate the monitor on the predominant organic HAP, and report the results as C_1_. Use Method 18 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-6, Method 320 of appendix A to this part, ASTM D6420-18 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14), or any approved alternative as the reference method for the relative accuracy tests, and report the results as C_1_.


(3) You must conduct a performance evaluation of each CEMS according to the requirements in § 63.8 of subpart A and according to the applicable Performance Specification of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B, except that the schedule in § 63.8(e)(4) of subpart A does not apply, and before October 13, 2020, the results of the performance evaluation must be included in the notification of compliance status report. Unless otherwise specified in this subpart, beginning on and after October 13, 2020, the results of the performance evaluation must be submitted in accordance with § 63.2520(g).


(4) The CEMS data must be reduced to operating day or operating block averages computed using valid data consistent with the data availability requirements specified in § 63.999(c)(6)(i)(B) through (D), except monitoring data also are sufficient to constitute a valid hour of data if measured values are available for at least two of the 15-minute periods during an hour when calibration, quality assurance, or maintenance activities are being performed. An operating block is a period of time from the beginning to end of batch operations within a process. Operating block averages may be used only for batch process vent data. In computing operating day or operating block averages to determine compliance with this subpart, you must exclude monitoring data recorded during CEMS breakdowns, out-of-control periods, repairs, maintenance periods, calibration checks, or other quality assurance activities. Out-of-control periods are as specified in § 63.8(c)(7) of subpart A.


(5) If you add supplemental gases, you must comply with paragraphs (j)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) Except as specified in paragraph (j)(5)(ii) of this section, correct the measured concentrations in accordance with paragraph (i) of this section and § 63.2460(c)(6).


(ii) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), you must use Performance Specification 3 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B, to certify your oxygen CEMS, and you must comply with procedure 1 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix F. Use Method 3A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2, as the reference method when conducting a relative accuracy test audit.


(6) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), in lieu of the requirements specified in § 63.8(d)(3) of subpart A you must keep the written procedures required by § 63.8(d)(2) of subpart A on record for the life of the affected source or until the affected source is no longer subject to the provisions of this part, to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator. If the performance evaluation plan is revised, you must keep previous (*i.e.,* superseded) versions of the performance evaluation plan on record to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator, for a period of 5 years after each revision to the plan. The program of corrective action should be included in the plan required under § 63.8(d)(2) of subpart A. In addition to the information required in § 63.8(d)(2) of subpart A, your written procedures for CEMS must include the information in paragraphs (j)(6)(i) through (vi) of this section:


(i) Description of CEMS installation location.


(ii) Description of the monitoring equipment, including the manufacturer and model number for all monitoring equipment components and the span of the analyzer.


(iii) Routine quality control and assurance procedures.


(iv) Conditions that would trigger a CEMS performance evaluation, which must include, at a minimum, a newly installed CEMS; a process change that is expected to affect the performance of the CEMS; and the Administrator's request for a performance evaluation under section 114 of the Clean Air Act.


(v) Ongoing operation and maintenance procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.8(c)(1) and (3), (c)(4)(ii), and (c)(7) and (8) of subpart A;


(vi) Ongoing recordkeeping and reporting procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.10(c) and (e)(1) of subpart A.


(k) *Continuous parameter monitoring.* The provisions in paragraphs (k)(1) through (8) of this section apply in addition to the requirements for continuous parameter monitoring system (CPMS) in subpart SS of this part.


(1) You must comply with paragraphs (k)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) Except as specified in paragraph (k)(1)(ii) of this section, record the results of each calibration check and all maintenance performed on the CPMS as specified in § 63.998(c)(1)(ii)(A).


(ii) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), paragraph (k)(1)(i) of this section no longer applies. Instead, you must record the results of each calibration check and all maintenance performed on the CPMS as specified in § 63.998(c)(1)(ii)(A), except you must record all maintenance, not just preventative maintenance.


(2) When subpart SS of this part 63 uses the term “a range” or “operating range” of a monitored parameter, it means an “operating limit” for a monitored parameter for the purposes of this subpart. 


(3) As an alternative to continuously measuring and recording pH as specified in §§ 63.994(c)(1)(i) and 63.998(a)(2)(ii)(D), you may elect to continuously monitor and record the caustic strength of the effluent. For halogen scrubbers used to control only batch process vents you may elect to monitor and record either the pH or the caustic strength of the scrubber effluent at least once per day.


(4) As an alternative to the inlet and outlet temperature monitoring requirements for catalytic incinerators as specified in § 63.988(c)(2) and the related recordkeeping requirements specified in § 63.998(a)(2)(ii)(B)(*2*) and (c)(2)(ii), you may elect to comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (k)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) Monitor and record the inlet temperature as specified in subpart SS of this part 63.


(ii) Check the activity level of the catalyst at least every 12 months and take any necessary corrective action, such as replacing the catalyst to ensure that the catalyst is performing as designed. 


(iii) Maintain records of the annual checks of catalyst activity levels and the subsequent corrective actions. 


(iv) Recording the downstream temperature and temperature difference across the catalyst bed as specified in § 63.998(a)(2)(ii)(B)(*2*) and (c)(2)(ii) is not required.


(5) For absorbers that control organic compounds and use water as the scrubbing fluid, you must conduct monitoring and recordkeeping as specified in paragraphs (k)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section instead of the monitoring and recordkeeping requirements specified in §§ 63.990(c)(1), 63.993(c)(1), and 63.998(a)(2)(ii)(C).


(i) You must use a flow meter capable of providing a continuous record of the absorber influent liquid flow.


(ii) You must determine gas stream flow using one of the procedures specified in § 63.994(c)(1)(ii)(A) through (D).


(iii) You must record the absorber liquid-to-gas ratio averaged over the time period of any performance test.


(6) For a control device with total inlet HAP emissions less than 1 tpy, you must establish an operating limit(s) for a parameter(s) that you will measure and record at least once per averaging period (i.e., daily or block) to verify that the control device is operating properly. You may elect to measure the same parameter(s) that is required for control devices that control inlet HAP emissions equal to or greater than 1 tpy. If the parameter will not be measured continuously, you must request approval of your proposed procedure in the precompliance report. You must identify the operating limit(s) and the measurement frequency, and you must provide rationale to support how these measurements demonstrate the control device is operating properly.


(7) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), the manufacturer's specifications or your written procedures must include a schedule for calibrations, preventative maintenance procedures, a schedule for preventative maintenance, and corrective actions to be taken if a calibration fails. If a CPMS calibration fails, the CPMS is considered to be inoperative until you take corrective action and the system passes calibration. You must record the nature and cause of instances when the CPMS is inoperative and the corrective action taken.


(8) You must comply with the requirements in paragraph (e)(4) of this section, as applicable.


(l) *Startup, shutdown, and malfunction.* Sections 63.152(f)(7)(ii) through (iv) and 63.998(b)(2)(iii) and (b)(6)(i)(A), which apply to the exclusion of monitoring data collected during periods of SSM from daily averages, do not apply for the purposes of this subpart. 


(m) *Reporting.* (1) When §§ 63.2455 through 63.2490 reference other subparts in this part 63 that use the term “periodic report,” it means “compliance report” for the purposes of this subpart. The compliance report must include the information specified in § 63.2520(e), as well as the information specified in referenced subparts. 


(2) When there are conflicts between this subpart and referenced subparts for the due dates of reports required by this subpart, reports must be submitted according to the due dates presented in this subpart. 


(3) Excused excursions, as defined in subparts G and SS of this part 63, are not allowed. 


(n) [Reserved] 


(o) You may not use a flare to control halogenated vent streams or hydrogen halide and halogen HAP emissions. 


(p) *Original safety device requirements.* Except as specified in paragraph (t) of this section, opening a safety device, as defined in § 63.2550, is allowed at any time conditions require it to avoid unsafe conditions.


(q) If an emission stream contains energetics or organic peroxides that, for safety reasons, cannot meet an applicable emission limit specified in Tables 1 through 7 to this subpart, then you must submit documentation in your precompliance report explaining why an undue safety hazard would be created if the air emission controls were installed, and you must describe the procedures that you will implement to minimize HAP emissions from these vent streams. 


(r) *Surge control vessels and bottoms receivers.* For each surge control vessel or bottoms receiver that meets the capacity and vapor pressure thresholds for a Group 1 storage tank, you must meet emission limits and work practice standards specified in Table 4 to this subpart. Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(i), for each surge control vessel and bottoms receiver in ethylene oxide service as defined in § 63.2550, you must also meet the applicable process vent requirements specified in §§ 63.2492 and 63.2493(a) through (c).


(s) For the purposes of determining Group status for continuous process vents, batch process vents, and storage tanks in §§ 63.2455, 63.2460, and 63.2470, hydrazine is to be considered an organic HAP. 


(t) *New safety device requirements.* Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), paragraph (p) of this section no longer applies. Instead, you must comply with the requirements specified in § 63.2480(e).


(u) *General duty.* Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), at all times, you must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. The general duty to minimize emissions does not require you to make any further efforts to reduce emissions if levels required by the applicable standard have been achieved. Determination of whether a source is operating in compliance with operation and maintenance requirements will be based on information available to the Administrator which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.


(v) *Maintenance vents.* Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), you may designate a process vent as a maintenance vent if the vent is only used as a result of startup, shutdown, maintenance, or inspection of equipment where equipment is emptied, depressurized, degassed, or placed into service. You must comply with the applicable requirements in paragraphs (v)(1) through (3) of this section for each maintenance vent. Any vent designated as a maintenance vent is only subject to the maintenance vent provisions in this paragraph (v) and the associated recordkeeping and reporting requirements in §§ 63.2525(p) and 63.2520(e)(14), respectively. You do not need to designate a maintenance vent as a Group 1 or Group 2 process vent nor identify maintenance vents in a Notification of Compliance Status report.


(1) Prior to venting to the atmosphere, remove process liquids from the equipment as much as practical and depressurize the equipment to either: A flare meeting the requirements of paragraph (e)(2) or (5) of this section, as applicable, or a non-flare control device meeting the requirements in paragraph (e)(4) of this section and the requirements specified in § 63.982(c)(2) of subpart SS until one of the following conditions, as applicable, is met.


(i) The vapor in the equipment served by the maintenance vent has a concentration less than 10 percent of its lower explosive limit (LEL) and has an outlet concentration less than or equal to 20 ppmv hydrogen halide and halogen HAP.


(ii) If there is no ability to measure the concentration of the vapor in the equipment based on the design of the equipment, the pressure in the equipment served by the maintenance vent is reduced to 5 pounds per square inch gauge (psig) or less. Upon opening the maintenance vent, active purging of the equipment cannot be used until the concentration of the vapors in the maintenance vent (or inside the equipment if the maintenance is a hatch or similar type of opening) is less than 10 percent of its LEL.


(iii) The equipment served by the maintenance vent contains less than 50 pounds of total volatile organic compounds (VOC).


(iv) If, after applying best practices to isolate and purge equipment served by a maintenance vent, none of the applicable criterion in paragraphs (v)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section can be met prior to installing or removing a blind flange or similar equipment blind, then the pressure in the equipment served by the maintenance vent must be reduced to 2 psig or less before installing or removing the equipment blind. During installation or removal of the equipment blind, active purging of the equipment may be used provided the equipment pressure at the location where purge gas is introduced remains at 2 psig or less.


(2) Except for maintenance vents complying with the alternative in paragraph (v)(1)(iii) of this section, you must determine the concentration of the vapor or, if applicable, equipment pressure using process instrumentation or portable measurement devices and follow procedures for calibration and maintenance according to manufacturer's specifications.


(3) For maintenance vents complying with the alternative in paragraph (v)(1)(iii) of this section, you must determine mass of VOC in the equipment served by the maintenance vent based on the equipment size and contents after considering any contents drained or purged from the equipment. Equipment size may be determined from equipment design specifications. Equipment contents may be determined using process knowledge.



---

[N] [68 FR 63888, Nov. 10, 2003, as amended at 70 FR 38559, July 1, 2005; 71 FR 40332, July 14, 2006; 85 FR 49133, Aug. 12, 2020; 89 FR 23868, Apr. 4, 2024]




