# § 62.14570   What must I do if I plan to permanently close my CISWI unit?

If you plan to permanently close your CISWI unit, then you must follow the requirements in either paragraph (a) or (b) of this section depending on when you plan to shut down.


(a) If you plan to shut down by October 4, 2004, rather that come into compliance with the complete set of requirements in this subpart, then you must shut down by October 4, 2004. In addition, while still in operation, your CISWI unit is subject to the same requirement to apply for and obtain a title V operating permit that applies to a CISWI unit that will not be permanently closing. *See* §§ 62.14830 and 62.14835.


(b) If you plan to shut down rather than come into compliance with the complete set of requirements of this subpart, but are unable to shut down by October 4, 2004, then you must petition EPA for and be granted an extension by following the procedures outlined in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section.


(1) You must submit your request for an extension to the EPA Administrator (or delegated enforcement authority) by December 3, 2003. Your request must include:


(i) Documentation of the analyses undertaken to support your need for an extension, including an explanation of why your requested extension date is sufficient time for you to shut down while October 4, 2004 does not provide sufficient time for shut down. A request based upon the avoidance of costs of meeting provisions of this subpart is not acceptable and will be denied. Your documentation must include an evaluation of the option to transport your waste offsite to a commercial or municipal waste treatment and/or disposal facility on a temporary or permanent basis; and


(ii) Documentation of incremental steps of progress, including dates for completing the increments of progress, that you will take towards shutting down. Some suggested incremental steps of progress towards shut down are provided as follows:


(2) You must shut down no later than by October 3, 2005.


(3) You must comply with the operator training and qualification requirements and inspection requirements (if applicable) of this subpart by October 4, 2004.


(4) You must submit a legally binding closure agreement to the Administrator by April 5, 2004. The closure agreement must specify the date by which operation will cease. The closure date cannot be later than October 3, 2005.


(5) While still in operation, your CISWI unit is subject to the same requirement to apply for and obtain a title V operating permit that applies to a CISWI unit that will not be permanently closing. *See* §§ 62.14830 and 62.14835.




