# § 200.926b   Model codes.

(a) *Incorporation by reference.* The following model code publications are incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. The incorporation by reference of these publications has been approved by the Director of the Federal Register. The locations where copies of these publications are available are set forth below.


(1) *CABO One and Two Family Dwelling Code,* 1992 Edition, including the 1993 amendments, but excluding Chapter I—Administrative, and the phrase “or approved fire retardant wood” contained in the exception of paragraph R-218.2.2(2), but including the Appendices A, B, D, and E of the Code. (Available from the Council of American Building Officials, Suite 708, 5203 Leesburg Pike, Falls Church, VA 22041.)


(2) *Electrical Code for One and Two Family Dwellings,* NFPA 70A, 1990 Edition, including Tables and Examples. Available from the National Fire Protection Association, Batterymarch Park, Quincy, MA 02269.


(b) *Model code compliance requirements.* (1) When a one or two family dwelling is to comply with the model codes set forth in § 200.926b(a), the following requirements of those model codes shall not apply to those properties:


(i) Those provisions of the model codes that establish energy requirements for one and two family dwellings; and


(ii) Those provisions of the model codes that require or allow the issuance of permits of any sort.


(2) Where the model codes set forth in paragraph (a) of this section designate a building, fire, mechanical, plumbing or other official, the Secretary's designee in the HUD Field Office serving the jurisdiction in which the dwelling is to be constructed shall act as such official.


(c) *Designation of Model Codes.* When a one or two family dwelling or townhouse is to comply with portions of the model code or the entire model code, the dwelling shall comply with the CABO One and Two Family Dwelling Code 1992 Edition, including the 1993 amendments, or portion thereof as modified by § 200.926e of this part and designated by the HUD Field Office serving a jurisdiction in which a property is located. In addition, the property shall comply with all of the standards which are referenced for any designated portions of the model code, and with the Electrical Code for One and Two Family Dwellings, NFPA 70A/1990.



---

[N] [50 FR 39594, Sept. 27, 1985, as amended at 58 FR 60249, Nov. 15, 1993]




