# § 25.6075-1   Returns, time for filing gift tax returns for gifts made after December 31, 1981.

(a) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraphs (b) (1) and (2) of this section, a return required to be filed under section 6019 for gifts made after December 31, 1981, must be filed on or before the 15th day of April following the close of the calendar year in which the gift was made.


(b) *Special rules*—(1) *Extensions.* Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, if a taxpayer files an income tax return on the calendar year basis and the taxpayer is granted an extension of time for filing the return of income tax imposed by Subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code, then such taxpayer shall also be deemed to have been granted an extension of time for filing the gift tax return under section 6019 for such calendar year equal to the extension of time granted for filing the income tax return. See section 6081 and the regulations thereunder for rules relating to extension of time for filing returns.


(2) *Death of donor.* Where a gift is made during the calendar year in which the donor dies, the time for filing the return made under section 6019 shall not be later than the time (including extensions) for filing the return made under section 6018 (relating to estate tax returns) with respect to such donor. In addition, should the time for filing the estate tax return fall later than the 15th day of April following the close of the calendar year, the time for filing the gift tax return shall be on or before the 15th day of April following the close of the calendar year, unless an extension (not extending beyond the time for filing the estate tax return) was granted for filing the gift tax return. If no estate tax return is required to be filed, the time for filing the gift tax return shall be on or before the 15th day of April following the close of the calendar year, unless an extension was granted for filing the gift tax return.


(c) Paragraphs (a) and (b) may be illustrated by the following examples.


(d) See section 7503 and § 301.7503-1 concerning the timely filing of a return that falls due on a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday. As to additions to the tax for failure to file the return within the prescribed time, see section 6651 and § 301.6651-1.



---

[N] [T.D. 7910, 48 FR 40375, Sept. 7, 1983]




