# § 1145.8   Data.

(a) A shipper or receiver with practical physical access to only one Class I carrier serving the lane of traffic for which individualized performance records are sought, and based on a good faith belief that the Class I carrier has provided service that does not meet at least one performance standard from § 1145.2, may submit a written request to the incumbent rail carrier for all individualized performance records relevant to the performance standard(s) the shipper or receiver believes the rail carrier has failed.


(1) In the request to the rail carrier, the shipper or receiver must identify the specific performance standard(s) that it believes the rail carrier has failed, and the corresponding date range and lane(s).


(2) Within seven days of the written request, the incumbent rail carrier shall provide the shipper or receiver with the requested individualized performance records.


(3) For purposes of this section, “individualized performance records” means the original estimated times of arrival, transit times, and/or industry spot and pull records related to the shipper or receiver's traffic, along with the corresponding time stamps.


(b) All Class I carriers shall report to the Board on a weekly basis, in a manner and form determined by the Board, data that shows: the percentage of shipments on the carrier's system that moved in manifest service and that were delivered within 24 hours of OETA, out of all shipments on the carrier's system that moved in manifest service during that week; and, for each of the carrier's operating divisions and for the carrier's overall system, the percentage of planned service windows during which the carrier successfully performed the requested local service, out of the total number of planned service windows on the relevant division or system for that week, all within the meaning of this part.


(c) Class I carriers shall provide, in the format of their choosing, machine-readable access to the information listed in this section.


(1) *Machine-readable* means data in an open format that can be easily processed by computer without human intervention while ensuring no semantic meaning is lost.


(2) *Open format* is a format that is not limited to a specific software program and not subject to restrictions on re-use.


(d) Class I carriers shall retain all data necessary to respond to a request under paragraph (a) of this section for a minimum of four years.






