# ยง 441.570   State assurances.

A State must assure the following requirements are met:


(a) Necessary safeguards have been taken to protect the health and welfare of enrollees in Community First Choice, including adherence to section 1903(i) of the Act that Medicaid payment shall not be made for items or services furnished by individuals or entities excluded from participating in the Medicaid Program.


(b) For the first full 12 month period in which the State plan amendment is implemented, the State must maintain or exceed the level of State expenditures for home and community-based attendant services and supports provided under sections 1115, 1905(a), 1915, or otherwise under the Act, to individuals with disabilities or elderly individuals attributable to the preceding 12 month period.


(c) All applicable provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938.


(d) All applicable provisions of Federal and State laws regarding the following:


(1) Withholding and payment of Federal and State income and payroll taxes.


(2) The provision of unemployment and workers compensation insurance.


(3) Maintenance of general liability insurance.


(4) Occupational health and safety.


(5) Any other employment or tax related requirements.


(e) An incident management system in accordance with ยง 441.302(a)(6) is implemented, except that the references to section 1915(c) of the Act are instead references to section 1915(k) of the Act.


(f) Payment rates are adequate to ensure a sufficient direct care workforce to meet the needs of beneficiaries and provide access to services in the amount, duration, and scope specified in beneficiaries' person-centered service plans, in accordance with ยง 441.302(k), except that the references to section 1915(c) of the Act are instead references to section 1915(k) of the Act.



---

[N] [77 FR 26898, May 7, 2012, as amended at 89 FR 40870, May 10, 2024]








