# § 665.241   Definitions.

As used in §§ 665.240 through 665.259:


*Hawaii crustacean management area* is divided into the following areas:


(1) *Crustacean Permit Area 1 (Permit Area 1)* means the EEZ around the NWHI.


(2) *Crustacean Permit Area 2 (Permit Area 2)* means the EEZ around the MHI.


(3) *Crustacean Permit Area 1 VMS Subarea* means an area within the EEZ around the NWHI 50 nm from the center geographical positions of the islands and reefs in the NWHI as follows:


*Hawaii crustacean ecosystem component species (Hawaii crustacean ECS)* means those species identified as ECS in the Hawaii FEP.


*Hawaii crustacean management unit species (Hawaii crustacean MUS)* means the following crustaceans:


*Interested parties* means the State of Hawaii Department of Land and Natural Resources, the Council, holders of permits issued under § 665.242, and any person who has notified the Regional Administrator of his or her interest in the procedures and decisions described in § 665.248, and who has specifically requested to be considered an “interested party.”


*Lobster grounds* refers, singularly or collectively, to the following four areas in Crustacean Permit Area 1 that shall be used to manage the lobster fishery:


(1) Necker Island Lobster Grounds—waters bounded by straight lines connecting the following coordinates in the order presented: 24°00′ N. lat., 165°00′ W. long.; 24°00′ N. lat., 164°00′ W. long.; 23°00′ N. lat., 164°00′ W. long.; and 23°00′ N. lat., 165°00′ W. long.


(2) Gardner Pinnacles Lobster Grounds—waters bounded by straight lines connecting the following coordinates in the order presented: 25°20′ N. lat., 168°20′ W. long.; 25°20′ N. lat., 167°40′ W. long.; 24°20′ N. lat., 167°40′ W. long.; and 24°20′ N. lat., 168°20′ W. long.


(3) Maro Reef Lobster Grounds—waters bounded by straight lines connecting the following coordinates in the order presented: 25°40′ N. lat., 171°00′ W. long.; 25°40′ N. lat., 170°20′ W. long.; 25°00′ N. lat., 170°20′ W. long.; and 25°00′ N. lat., 171°00′ W. long.


(4) General NWHI Lobster Grounds—all waters within Crustacean Permit Area 1 except for the Necker Island, Gardner Pinnacles, and Maro Reef Lobster Grounds.



---

[N] [75 FR 2205, Jan. 14, 2010, as amended at 84 FR 2773, Feb. 8, 2019]




