# § 172.315   Limited quantities.

(a) *Modes other than air transport.* Except for an article or substance of Class 7 prepared in accordance with subpart I of part 173, a package prepared in accordance with applicable limited quantity requirements in part 173 of this subchapter and offered for transportation by a mode other than air must display the limited quantity marking shown in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. A package displaying this mark is not subject to the marking requirements of § 172.301 of this subpart unless the limited quantity package also contains a hazardous substance or a hazardous waste. Required markings need not be duplicated if already marked as prescribed elsewhere in this subpart. As an alternative, a packaging may display the limited quantity “Y” mark shown in paragraph (b) of this section if the package conforms to authorized substance and article provisions and the inner and outer package quantity limits in § 173.27(f) of this subchapter.


(1) *Marking description.* The top and bottom portions of the square-on-point and the border forming the square-on-point must be black and the center white or of a suitable contrasting background as follows:


(2) The square-on-point must be durable, legible and of a size relative to the packaging, readily visible, and must be applied on at least one side or one end of the outer packaging. The width of the border forming the square-on-point must be at least 2 mm and the minimum dimension of each side, as measured from the outside of the lines forming the border, must be 100 mm unless the packaging size requires a reduced size marking that must be no less than 50 mm on each side and the width of the border forming the square on point may be reduced to a minimum of 1 mm. Where dimensions are not specified, all features shall be in approximate proportion to those shown. When intended for transportation by vessel, a cargo transport unit (see § 176.2 of this subchapter) containing packages of hazardous materials in only limited quantities must be marked once on each side and once on each end of the exterior of the unit with an identical mark which must have minimum dimensions of 250 mm on each side.


(i) *Transitional exception.* A marking in conformance with the requirements of this paragraph in effect on December 31, 2014, may continue to be used until December 31, 2016.


(ii) For domestic transportation, a packaging marked prior to January 1, 2017 and in conformance with the requirements of this paragraph in effect on December 31, 2014, may continue in service until the end of its useful life.


(3) Except for Class 1 and 7, and Division 6.1 and 6.2 materials, for highway transportation by private motor carrier, the limited quantity marking is not required to be displayed on a package containing materials assigned to Packing Group II and III prepared in accordance with the limited quantity requirements in subpart B of part 173 of this subchapter provided:


(i) Inner packagings for liquid hazardous materials do not exceed 1.0 L (0.3 gallons) net capacity each;


(ii) Inner packagings for solid hazardous materials do not exceed 1.0 kg (2.2 pounds) net capacity each;


(iii) No more than 2 L (0.6 gallons) or 2 kg (4.4 pounds) aggregate net quantity of any one hazardous material is transported per vehicle;


(iv) The total gross weight of all the limited quantity packages per vehicle does not exceed 60 kg (132 pounds); and


(v) Each package is marked with the name and address of the offeror, a 24-hour emergency response telephone number and the statement “Contains Chemicals” in letters at least 25 mm (one-inch) high on a contrasting background.


(b) *Air transport.* Except for an article or substance of Class 7 prepared in accordance with subpart I of part 173, a package prepared in accordance with air-specific limited quantity requirements prescribed in § 173.27 of this subchapter and intended for transportation by air must display the limited quantity mark prescribed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section in addition to other markings required by this subpart (*e.g.,* “RQ”, proper shipping name, identification number, as appropriate). Required markings need not be duplicated if already marked as prescribed elsewhere in this subpart.


(1) *Marking Description.* The top and bottom portions of the square-on-point and the border forming the square-on-point must be black and the center white or of a suitable contrasting background and the symbol “Y” must be black and located in the center of the square-on-point and be clearly visible as follows:


(2) The square-on-point must be durable, legible and of a size relative to the package as to be readily visible. The square-on-point must be applied on at least one side or one end of the outer packaging. The width of the border forming the square-on-point must be at least 2 mm and the minimum dimension of each side, as measured from the outside of the lines forming the border, must be 100 mm unless the package size requires a reduced size marking that must be no less than 50 mm on each side and the width of the border forming the square on point may be reduced to a minimum of 1 mm. Where dimensions are not specified, all features shall be in approximate proportion to those shown.


(i) *Transitional exception.* A marking in conformance with the requirements of this paragraph in effect on December 31, 2014, may continue to be used until December 31, 2016.


(ii) For domestic transportation, a packaging marked prior to January 1, 2017 and in conformance with the requirements of this paragraph in effect on December 31, 2014, may continue in service until the end of its useful life.


(3) For transportation by aircraft, the entire mark must appear on one side of the package.


(c) Limited quantity markings prescribed in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section may use the packaging itself as the contrasting background for the center portion of the marking if the color sufficiently contrasts so that the black border, top and bottom portions of the square-on-point, and the “Y” symbol, if applicable, are clearly recognizable.


(d) [Reserved]



---

[N] [76 FR 82174, Dec. 30, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 1073, Jan. 7, 2013; 78 FR 65478, Oct. 31, 2013; 80 FR 1149, Jan. 8, 2015; 81 FR 3671, Jan. 21, 2016; 87 FR 44990, July 26, 2022; 87 FR 79772, Dec. 27, 2022]




