# § 100.1   Petitions requesting exemption from preemption for State or local requirements.

(a) *Scope and purpose.* (1) This subpart applies to the submission and consideration of petitions under section 403A(b) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the act), by a State or a political subdivision of a State, requesting exemption of a State requirement from preemption under section 403A(a) of the act.


(2) Section 403A(b) of the act provides that where a State requirement has been preempted under section 403A(a) of the act, the State may petition the agency for an exemption. The agency may grant the exemption, under such conditions as it may prescribe by regulation, if the agency finds that the State requirement will not cause any food to be in violation of any applicable requirement under Federal law, will not unduly burden interstate commerce, and is designed to address a particular need for information that is not met by the preemptive Federal requirement.


(b) *Definitions.* (1) *Act* means the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321 *et seq.*).


(2) *Agency* means the Food and Drug Administration.


(3) *Commissioner* means the Commissioner of Food and Drugs.


(4) *State* means a State as defined in section 201(a)(1) of the act (which includes a territory of the United States, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico) or any political subdivision of a State having authority to issue food standards and food labeling regulations having force of law.


(5) *State requirement* means any statute, standard, regulation, or other requirement that is issued by a State.


(c) *Prerequisites for petitions for exemption from preemption.* The Food and Drug Administration will consider a petition for exemption from preemption on its merits only if the petition demonstrates that:


(1) The State requirement was enacted or was issued as a final rule by an authorized official of the State and is in effect or would be in effect but for the provisions of section 403A of the act.


(2) The State requirement is subject to preemption under section 403A(a) of the act because of a statutory provision listed in that section or because of a Federal standard or other Federal regulation that is in effect, or that has been published as a final rule with a designated effective date, and that was issued under the authority of a statutory provision listed in that section. For the purposes of this subpart, all petitions seeking exemption from preemption under section 403A(a)(3) through (a)(5) of the act submitted before May 8, 1992, will be considered timely even though the applicable statutory provisions or regulations are not yet in effect.


(3) The petitioner is an official of a State having authority to act for, or on behalf of, the Government in applying for an exemption of State requirements from preemption.


(4) The State requirement is subject to preemption under section 403A(a) of the act because it is not identical to the requirement of the preemptive Federal statutory provision or regulation including a standard of identity, quality, and fill. “Not identical to” does not refer to the specific words in the requirement but instead means that the State requirement directly or indirectly imposes obligations or contains provisions concerning the composition or labeling of food, or concerning a food container, that:


(i) Are not imposed by or contained in the applicable provision (including any implementing regulation) of section 401 or 403 of the act; or


(ii) Differ from those specifically imposed by or contained in the applicable provision (including any implementing regulation) of section 401 or 403 of the act.


(d) *Form of petition.* (1) All information included in the petition should meet the general requirements of § 10.20(c) of this chapter.


(2) An original and one copy of the petition shall be submitted, or the petitioner may submit an original and a computer readable disk containing the petition. Contents of the disk should be in a standard format, such as ASCII format. (Petitioners interested in submitting a disk should contact the Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition for details.)


(3) Petitions for exemption from preemption for a State requirement shall be submitted to the Dockets Management Staff in the following form:


(e) *Submission of petition for exemption; public disclosure.* The availability for public disclosure of a petition for exemption will be governed by the rules specified in § 10.20(j) of this chapter.


(f) *Agency consideration of petitions.* (1) Unless otherwise specified in this section, all relevant provisions and requirements of subpart B of part 10 of this chapter, are applicable to State petitions requesting exemption from Federal preemption under section 403A(b) of the act.


(2) If a petition does not meet the prerequisite requirements of paragraph (c) of this section, the agency will issue a letter to the petitioner denying the petition and stating in what respect the petition does not meet these requirements.


(3) If a petition appears to meet the prerequisite requirements in paragraph (c) of this section, it will be filed by the Dockets Management Staff, stamped with the date of filing, and assigned a docket number. The docket number identifies the file established by the Dockets Management Staff for all submissions relating to the petition, as provided in this part. Subsequent submissions relating to the matter must refer to the docket number and will be filed in the docket file. The Dockets Management Staff will promptly notify the petitioner in writing of the filing and docket number of a petition.


(4) Any interested person may submit written comments to the Dockets Management Staff on a filed petition as provided in § 10.30(d) of this chapter.


(5) Within 90 days of the date of filing the agency will furnish a response to the petitioner. The response will either:


(i) State that the agency has tentatively determined that the petition merits the granting of an exemption, and that it intends to publish in the _Federal Register_ a proposal to grant the exemption through rulemaking;


(ii) Deny the petition and state the reasons for such denial; or


(iii) Provide a tentative response indicating why the agency has been unable to reach a decision on the petition, e.g., because of other agency priorities or a need for additional information.


(g) If a State submitted a petition for exemption of a State requirement from preemption under section 403A(a)(3) through (a)(5) of the act before May 8, 1992, that State requirement will not be subject to preemption until:


(1) November 8, 1992; or


(2) Action on the petition, whichever occurs later.



---

[N] [58 FR 2468, Jan. 6, 1993, as amended at 88 FR 45065, July 14, 2023]




