# ยง 580.3   Definitions.

All terms defined in 49 U.S.C. 32702 are used in their statutory meaning. Other terms used in this part are defined as follows:


*Access* means the authorized entry to, and display of, an electronic title in a manner allowing modification of previously stored data, even if the stored data is not modified at the time it is accessed. The term does not include display of an electronic record for viewing purposes where modification of stored data is not possible, or where modification to the record is possible but results in a new, unique electronic title.


*Electronic power of attorney* means a power of attorney maintained in electronic form by a jurisdiction that meets all the requirements of this part. For the purposes of this part, this term is limited to a record that was created electronically and does not include a physical power of attorney that was executed on paper and converted by scanning or imaging for storage in an electronic medium.


*Electronic title* means a title created and maintained in an electronic format by a jurisdiction that meets all the requirements of this part. An electronic title incorporates an electronic reassignment form or process containing the disclosures required by this part facilitating transfers between transferors and transferees who do not take title to the vehicle. As set forth in ยง 580.5(g), an electronic reassignment may precede issuance of an electronic title when no electronic title exists. For the purposes of this part, this term is limited to a record created electronically and does not include a physical title incorporating an odometer disclosure executed on that title and converted by scanning and imaging for storage in an electronic medium.


*Jurisdiction* means a state, territory, or possession of the United States of America.


*Lessee* means any person, or the agent for any person, to whom a motor vehicle has been leased for a term of at least 4 months.


*Lessor* means any person, or the agent for any person, who has leased 5 or more motor vehicles in the past 12 months.


*Mileage* means actual distance that a vehicle has traveled.


*Original power of attorney* means, for single copy forms, the document set forth by secure process which is issued by the State, and, for multicopy forms, any and all copies set forth by secure process which are issued by the State.


*Physical power of attorney* means, for single copy forms, the paper document set forth by secure process which is issued by the jurisdiction, and, for multicopy forms, any and all copies set forth by a secure printing process or other secure process which are issued by the jurisdiction pursuant to ยง 580.13 or ยง 580.14.


*Printed name* means either:


(1) For a physical title or physical power of attorney, the clear and legible name applied to the physical document of the signatory; or


(2) For an electronic title or electronic power of attorney, the clear, legible, visible, audible, recognizable, or otherwise understandable name of the electronic signatory recorded and stored electronically.


*Physical* when referring to a document means a manufacturer's certificate of origin, title, reassignment document, or power of attorney printed on paper by a secure printing process or other secure process that meets all the requirements of this part.


*Secure printing process or other secure process* means any process which deters and detects counterfeiting and/or unauthorized reproduction and allows alterations to be visible to the naked eye.


*Sign or signature* means either:


(1) For a physical document, a person's name, or a mark representing it, as hand written personally.


(2) For an electronic odometer disclosure incorporated in an electronic title or power of attorney, an electronic sound, symbol, or process:


(i) Using a secure authentication system identifying a specific individual with a degree of certainty equivalent to or greater than Level 2 as described in NIST Special Publication 800-63-3, Revision 3, *Digital Identity Guidelines* (including sub-parts 800-63-3A, 800-63-3B and 800-63-3C), June 2017. NIST Special Publication 800-63-3, Revision 3, *Digital Identity Guidelines* (including sub-parts 800-63-3A, 800-63-3B and 800-63-3C), June 2017 is incorporated by reference into this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. To enforce any edition other than that specified in this section, NHTSA must publish a document in the _Federal Register_ and the material must be available to the public. All approved material is available for inspection at NHTSA Office of Technical Information Services, 1200 New Jersey Avenue SE, phone number (202) 366-2588, and is available from the National Institute of Standards and Technology, U.S. Department of Commerce, 100 Bureau Drive, Gaithersburg, Maryland 20899, *https://pages.nist.gov/800-63-3/sp800-63-3.html.* It is also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email *fedreg.legal@nara.gov* or go to *www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html*; or


(ii) Completed in person before a bona fide employee of the jurisdiction or statutory agent under a surety bond with the jurisdiction.


*Transferee* means any person to whom ownership of a motor vehicle is transferred, by purchase, gift, or any means other than by the creation of a security interest, and any person who, as agent, signs an odometer disclosure statement for the transferee.


*Transferor* means any person who transfers their ownership of a motor vehicle by sale, gift, or any means other than by the creation of a security interest, and any person who, as agent, signs an odometer disclosure statement for the transferor.



---

[N] [53 FR 29476, Aug. 5, 1988, as amended at 54 FR 35887, Aug. 30, 1989; 56 FR 47686, Sept. 20, 1991; 84 FR 52699, Oct. 2, 2019]




