# § 351.226   Circumvention inquiries.

(a) *Introduction.* Section 781 of the Act addresses the circumvention of antidumping and countervailing duty orders. This provision recognizes that circumvention seriously undermines the effectiveness of the remedies provided by the antidumping and countervailing duty proceedings and frustrates the purposes for which these laws were enacted. Section 781 of the Act allows the Secretary to apply antidumping and countervailing duty orders in such a way as to prevent circumvention by including within the scope of the order four distinct categories of merchandise. The Secretary will initiate and conduct a circumvention inquiry at the request of an interested party or on the Secretary's initiative, and issue a circumvention determination as provided for under section 781 of the Act and the rules and procedures in this section. Unless otherwise specified, the procedures as described in subpart C of this part (§§ 351.301 through 351.308 and 351.312 through 351.313) apply to this section.


(b) *Self-initiation of a circumvention inquiry.* If the Secretary determines from available information that an inquiry is warranted into the question of whether the elements necessary for a circumvention determination under section 781 of the Act exist, the Secretary may initiate a circumvention inquiry by publishing a notice of initiation in the _Federal Register_.


(c) *Circumvention inquiry request*—(1) *In general.* An interested party may submit a request for a circumvention inquiry that alleges that the elements necessary for a circumvention determination under section 781 of the Act exist and that is accompanied by information reasonably available to the interested party supporting these allegations. The circumvention inquiry request must be served in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (n) of this section.


(2) *Contents of request.* To the extent reasonably available to the requestor, a circumvention inquiry request must include the following requested information under paragraph (c)(1) of this section and relevant supporting documentation:


(i) A detailed description of the merchandise allegedly circumventing the antidumping or countervailing duty order, including:


(A) The physical characteristics (including chemical, dimensional or technical characteristics) of the product;


(B) The country(ies) where the product is produced, the country from where it is exported, and the declared country of origin;


(C) The product's tariff classification under the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States and copies of any Customs rulings relevant to the tariff classification;


(D) The uses of the product;


(E) Clear and legible photographs, schematic drawings, specifications, standards, marketing materials, and any other exemplars providing a visual depiction of the product; and


(F) A description of parts, materials, and the production process employed in the production of the product.


(ii) A concise public summary of the product's description under paragraphs (c)(2)(i)(A) through (C) of this section.


(iii) The name and address of the producer, exporter, and importer of the product. If the full universe of parties allegedly circumventing the order(s) is unknown, then examples are sufficient.


(iv) A statement of the requestor's position as to the nature of the alleged circumvention under section 781 of the Act, such as a description of the procedures, channels of trade, and foreign countries involved (including a description of the processes occurring in each country), as appropriate.


(v) A statement of the requestor's position as to whether the circumvention inquiry, if initiated, should be conducted on a country-wide basis.


(vi) Factual information supporting this position, including import and export data relevant to the merchandise allegedly circumventing the antidumping or countervailing duty order.


(3) *Comments and information on the adequacy of the request.* Within 10 days after the filing of a circumvention inquiry request under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, an interested party other than the requestor is permitted one opportunity to submit comments and new factual information regarding the adequacy of the circumvention inquiry request. Within five days after the filing of new factual information in support of adequacy comments, the requestor is permitted one opportunity to submit comments and factual information to rebut, clarify, or correct that factual information.




(d) *Initiation of a circumvention inquiry and other actions based on a request*—(1) *Initiation of a circumvention inquiry.* Except as provided under paragraphs (d)(1)(ii) and (d)(2) of this section, within 30 days after the filing of a request for a circumvention inquiry, the Secretary will determine whether to accept or reject the request and whether to initiate or not initiate a circumvention inquiry. If it is not practicable to make such determinations within 30 days, the Secretary may extend the 30-day deadline by an additional 15 days if no interested party has filed new factual information in response to the circumvention request pursuant to paragraph (c)(3) of this section. If interested parties have filed new factual information pursuant to paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the Secretary may extend the 30-day deadline by an additional 30 days.


(i) If the Secretary determines that the request is incomplete or otherwise unacceptable, the Secretary may reject the request, and will provide a written explanation of the reasons for the rejection. If the request is rejected, the requestor may resubmit the full request at any time, with all identified deficiencies corrected.


(ii) If the Secretary issues questions to the requestor seeking clarification with respect to one or more aspects of a circumvention inquiry request, the Secretary will determine whether or not to initiate within 30 days after the requestor files a timely response to the Secretary's questions.


(iii) If the Secretary determines that a request for a circumvention inquiry satisfies the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section, the Secretary will accept the request and initiate a circumvention inquiry. The Secretary will publish a notice of initiation in the _Federal Register_.




(2) *Other actions based on a request for a circumvention inquiry.* Where applicable, the Secretary may take one of the following actions within the applicable timeline under paragraph (d)(1) of this section:


(i) If the Secretary determines upon review of a request for a circumvention inquiry that a scope ruling is warranted before the Secretary can conduct a circumvention analysis, the Secretary may either initiate the circumvention inquiry under paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section and address the scope issue in the circumvention inquiry (*see* § 351.225(i)(1)), or defer initiation of the circumvention inquiry pending the completion of any ongoing or new segment of the proceeding addressing the scope issue. When initiation is deferred pending another segment of the proceeding, if the result of that other segment is that the product at issue is not covered by the scope of the antidumping and/or countervailing duty order(s) at issue, the Secretary may immediately initiate the circumvention inquiry upon the issuance of the final decision in that other segment; or


(ii) If the Secretary determines upon review of the request for a circumvention inquiry that the circumvention issue should be addressed in an ongoing segment of the proceeding, such as a covered merchandise inquiry under § 351.227, rather than initiating a circumvention inquiry, the Secretary will notify the requestor of its intent to address the circumvention issue in such other segment.


(e) *Deadlines for circumvention determinations*—(1) *Preliminary determination.* The Secretary will issue a preliminary determination under paragraph (g)(1) of this section no later than 150 days after the date of publication of the notice of initiation of paragraph (b) or (d) of this section. If the Secretary concludes that an extension of the preliminary determination is warranted, the Secretary may extend that deadline by no more than 90 additional days.


(2) *Final determination.* In accordance with section 781(f) of the Act, the Secretary shall, to the maximum extent practicable, issue a final determination under paragraph (g)(2) of this section no later than 300 days from the date of publication of the notice of initiation of a circumvention inquiry under paragraph (b) or (d) of this section. If the Secretary concludes that the inquiry is extraordinarily complicated and additional time is necessary to issue a final circumvention determination, then the Secretary may extend the 300-day deadline by no more than 65 days.


(3) *Alignment with other segments.* If the Secretary determines it is appropriate to do so, the Secretary may align the deadlines under this paragraph with the deadlines of another segment of the proceeding.


(f) *Circumvention inquiry procedures.* The filing and timing instructions of § 351.301(c) do not apply to this paragraph (f), and factual information submitted inconsistent with the terms of this paragraph may be rejected as unsolicited and untimely. (1) Within 30 days after the Secretary's self-initiation of a circumvention inquiry under paragraph (b) of this section, interested parties are permitted one opportunity to submit comments and factual information addressing the self-initiation. Within 14 days after the filing of such comments, any interested party is permitted one opportunity to submit comments and factual information submitted by the other interested parties.


(2) Within 30 days after the initiation of a circumvention inquiry under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, an interested party other than the applicant is permitted one opportunity to submit comments and factual information to rebut, clarify, or correct factual information contained in the scope ruling application. Within 14 days after the filing of such rebuttal, clarification, or correction, the applicant is permitted one opportunity to submit comments and factual information to rebut, clarify, or correct factual information submitted in the interested party's rebuttal, clarification, or correction.


(3) Following initiation of a circumvention inquiry under paragraph (b) or (d) of this section, the Secretary may issue questionnaires and verify submissions received, where appropriate. The Secretary may limit issuance of questionnaires to a reasonable number of respondents. Questionnaire responses are due on the date specified by the Secretary. Within 14 days after a questionnaire response has been filed with the Secretary, an interested party other than the original submitter is permitted one opportunity to submit comments and factual information to rebut, clarify, or correct factual information contained in the questionnaire response. Within 7 days of the filing of such rebuttal, clarification, or correction, the original submitter is permitted one opportunity to submit comments and factual information to rebut, clarify, or correct factual information contained in the interested party's rebuttal, clarification or correction.


(4) If the Secretary issues a preliminary circumvention determination under paragraph (g)(1) of this section, which is not issued concurrently with the initiation of the circumvention inquiry, the Secretary will establish a schedule for the filing of comments and rebuttal comments. Unless otherwise specified, any interested party may submit comments within 14 days after the issuance of the preliminary circumvention determination, and any interested party may submit rebuttal comments within 7 days thereafter. Unless otherwise specified, no new factual information will be accepted in the comments or rebuttal comments.


(5) If the Secretary issues a preliminary circumvention determination concurrently with the initiation of the circumvention inquiry under paragraph (g)(1) of this section, paragraphs (f)(1) through (4) will not apply. In such a situation, the Secretary will establish appropriate procedures on a case-specific basis.


(6) If the Secretary determines it is appropriate to do so, the Secretary may rescind, in whole or in part, a circumvention inquiry, under this section and will notify interested parties. Situations in which the Secretary may rescind a circumvention inquiry include:


(i) The requestor timely withdraws its request for a circumvention inquiry under paragraph (c) of this section;


(ii) The Secretary issues a final determination in another segment of a proceeding, and has determined that the merchandise at issue in the circumvention inquiry is covered by the scope of the antidumping or countervailing duty order;


(iii) The Secretary has initiated a circumvention inquiry under paragraph (b) or (d) of this section to examine circumvention under two or more provisions under paragraph (h), (i), (j), or (k) of this section, and determines that it is not necessary to issue a final circumvention determination with respect to one of those paragraphs. For example, if the Secretary initiates a circumvention inquiry to examine whether merchandise is altered in minor respects under paragraph (j) of this section or later-developed merchandise under paragraph (k) of this section, the Secretary may rescind the inquiry in part to address only one of those provisions; or


(iv) The Secretary has initiated a covered merchandise inquiry under § 351.227 and determined that it can address the necessary elements for a circumvention determination under section 781 of the Act in that proceeding.


(7) If the Secretary determines it is appropriate to do so, the Secretary may alter or extend any time limits under this paragraph or establish a separate schedule for the filing of comments and/or factual information during the circumvention inquiry.


(8)(i) The Secretary will notify the Commission in writing of the proposed inclusion of products in an order prior to issuing a final determination under paragraph (g)(2) of this section based on a determination under:


(A) Section 781(a) of the Act (paragraph (h) of this section) with respect to merchandise completed or assembled in the United States (other than minor completion or assembly);


(B) Section 781(b) of the Act (paragraph (i) of this section) with respect to merchandise completed or assembled in other foreign countries; or


(C) Section 781(d) of the Act (paragraph (k) of this section) with respect to later-developed products that incorporate a significant technological advance or significant alteration of an earlier product.


(ii) If the Secretary notifies the Commission under paragraph (f)(8)(i) of this section, upon the written request of the Commission, the Secretary will consult with the Commission regarding the proposed inclusion, and any such consultation will be completed within 15 days after the date of such request. If, after consultation, the Commission believes that a significant injury issue is presented by the proposed inclusion of a product within an order, the Commission may provide written advice to the Secretary as to whether the inclusion would be inconsistent with the affirmative injury determination of the Commission on which the order is based.


(9) During the pendency of a circumvention inquiry or upon issuance of a final circumvention determination under paragraph (g)(2) of this section, the Secretary may take any further action, as appropriate, with respect to another segment of the proceeding. For example, if the Secretary considers it appropriate, the Secretary may request information concerning the product that is the subject of the circumvention inquiry for purposes of an administrative review under § 351.213.


(g) *Circumvention determinations*—(1) *Preliminary determination.* The Secretary will issue a preliminary determination, based upon the available information at the time, as to whether there is a reasonable basis to believe or suspect that the elements necessary for a circumvention determination under section 781 of the Act exist. The preliminary determination will be published in the _Federal Register._ The Secretary may publish notice of a preliminary determination concurrently with the notice of initiation of a circumvention inquiry under paragraph (b) or (d) of this section.


(2) *Final determination.* The Secretary will issue a final determination as to whether the elements necessary for a circumvention determination under section 781 of the Act exist, in which case the merchandise at issue will be included within the scope of the order. As part of its determination, the Secretary will include an explanation of the factual and legal conclusions on which the final determination is based. The final determination will be published in the _Federal Register._ Promptly after publication, the Secretary will convey a copy of the final determination in the manner prescribed by section 516A(a)(2)(A)(ii) of the Act to all parties to the proceeding (see § 351.102(b)(36)).


(h) *Products completed or assembled in the United States.* Under section 781(a) of the Act, the Secretary may include within the scope of an antidumping or countervailing duty order imported parts or components referred to in section 781(a)(1)(B) of the Act that are used in the completion or assembly of the merchandise in the United States at any time such order is in effect. In determining the value of parts or components (including such purchases from another person) under section 781(a)(1)(D) of the Act, or of processing performed (including by another person) under section 781(a)(2)(E) of the Act, the Secretary may determine the value of the part or component on the basis of the cost of producing the part or component under section 773(e) of the Act—or, in the case of nonmarket economies, on the basis of section 773(c) of the Act.


(i) *Products completed or assembled in other foreign countries.* Under section 781(b) of the Act, the Secretary may include within the scope of an antidumping or countervailing duty order, at any time such order is in effect, imported merchandise completed or assembled in a foreign country other than the country to which the order applies. In determining the value of parts or components (including such purchases from another person) under section 781(b)(1)(D) of the Act, or of processing performed (including by another person) under section 781(b)(2)(E) of the Act, the Secretary may determine the value of the part or component on the basis of the cost of producing the part or component under section 773(e) of the Act—or, in the case of nonmarket economies, on the basis of section 773(c) of the Act.


(j) *Minor alterations of merchandise.* Under section 781(c) of the Act, the Secretary may include within the scope of an antidumping or countervailing duty order articles altered in form or appearance in minor respects. The Secretary may consider such criteria including, but not limited to, the overall physical characteristics of the merchandise, (including chemical, dimensional, and technical characteristics), the expectations of the ultimate users, the use of the merchandise, the channels of marketing and the cost of any modification relative to the total value of the imported products. The Secretary also may consider the circumstances under which the products enter the United States, including but not limited to the timing of the entries and the quantity of merchandise entered during the circumvention review period.


(k) *Later-developed merchandise.* In determining whether later-developed merchandise is within the scope of an antidumping or countervailing duty order, the Secretary will apply section 781(d) of the Act. In determining whether merchandise is “later-developed” the Secretary will examine whether the merchandise at issue was commercially available at the time of the initiation of the underlying antidumping or countervailing duty investigation.


(l) *Suspension of liquidation.* (1) When the Secretary publishes a notice of initiation of a circumvention inquiry under paragraph (b) or (d) of this section, the Secretary will notify U.S. Customs and Border Protection of the initiation and direct U.S. Customs and Border Protection to continue the suspension of liquidation of entries of products subject to the circumvention inquiry that were already subject to the suspension of liquidation, and to apply the cash deposit rate that would be applicable if the product were determined to be covered by the scope of the order.


(2) If the Secretary issues an affirmative preliminary determination under paragraph (g)(1) of this section that the product at issue is covered by the scope of the order, the Secretary will take the following actions:


(i) The Secretary will direct U.S. Customs and Border Protection to continue the suspension of liquidation of previously suspended entries and apply the applicable cash deposit rate;


(ii) The Secretary will direct U.S. Customs and Border Protection to begin the suspension of liquidation and require a cash deposit of estimated duties, at the applicable rate, for each unliquidated entry of the product not yet suspended, entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or after the date of the publication of the notice of initiation of the circumvention inquiry; and


(iii)(A) *In general.* Subject to paragraph (l)(2)(iii)(B) of this section, if the Secretary determines that it is appropriate to do so, the Secretary may direct U.S. Customs and Border Protection to begin the suspension of liquidation and require a cash deposit of estimated duties, at the applicable rate, for each unliquidated entry of the product not yet suspended, entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption prior to the date of publication of the notice of initiation of the inquiry. The Secretary may take action under this provision at the timely request of an interested party or at the Secretary's discretion. In response to a timely request from an interested party, the Secretary will only consider an alternative date based on a specific argument supported by evidence establishing the appropriateness of that alternative date.


(B) *Exception.* If the Secretary has determined to address a covered merchandise referral (*see* § 351.227) in a circumvention inquiry under § 351.226, the rules of § 351.227(l)(2)(iii) will apply.


(3) If the Secretary issues an affirmative final determination under paragraph (g)(2) of this section that the product at issue is covered by the scope of the order, the following rules will apply:


(i) The Secretary will direct U.S. Customs and Border Protection to continue the suspension of liquidation of previously suspended entries and apply the applicable cash deposit rate until appropriate liquidation instructions are issued;


(ii) The Secretary will direct U.S. Customs and Border Protection to begin the suspension of liquidation and require a cash deposit of estimated duties, at the applicable rate, for each unliquidated entry of the product not yet suspended, entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or after the date of publication of the notice of initiation of the inquiry until appropriate liquidation instructions are issued; and


(iii)(A) *In general.* Subject to paragraph (l)(3)(iii)(B) of this section, if the Secretary determines that it is appropriate to do so, the Secretary may direct U.S. Customs and Border Protection to begin the suspension of liquidation and require a cash deposit of estimated duties, at the applicable rate, for each unliquidated entry of the product not yet suspended, entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption prior to the date of publication of the notice of initiation of the inquiry until appropriate liquidation instructions are issued. The Secretary may take action under this provision at the timely request of an interested party or at the Secretary's discretion. In response to a timely request from an interested party, the Secretary will only consider an alternative date based on a specific argument supported by evidence establishing the appropriateness of that alternative date.


(B) *Exception.* If the Secretary has determined to address a covered merchandise referral (see § 351.227) in a circumvention inquiry under § 351.226, the rules of § 351.227(l)(3)(iii) will apply.


(4) If the Secretary issues a negative final determination under paragraph (g)(2) of this section, and entries of the product are not otherwise subject to suspension of liquidation as a result of another segment of the proceeding, such as a covered merchandise inquiry under § 351.227, the Secretary will order U.S. Customs and Border Protection to terminate the suspension of liquidation and refund any cash deposits for such entries.


(5) Nothing in this section affects the U.S. Customs and Border Protection's authority to take any additional action with respect to the suspension of liquidation or related measures.


(m) *Applicability of circumvention determination; companion orders*—(1) *Applicability of circumvention determination.* In conducting a circumvention inquiry under this section, the Secretary shall consider, based on the available record evidence, the appropriate remedy to address circumvention and to prevent evasion of the order. Such remedies may include:


(i) The application of the determination on a producer-specific, exporter-specific, importer-specific basis, or some combination thereof;


(ii) The application of the determination on a country-wide basis to all products from the same country as the product at issue with the same relevant physical characteristics, (including chemical, dimensional and technical characteristics), regardless of producer, exporter, or importer of those products;


(iii) The application of the determination on a country-wide basis to all products from the same country as the product at issue with similar relevant physical characteristics, (including chemical, dimensional and technical characteristics), regardless of producer, exporter, or importer of those products; and


(iv) The implementation of a certification requirement under 19 CFR 351.228.


(2) *Companion antidumping and countervailing duty orders.* If there are companion antidumping and countervailing duty orders covering the same merchandise from the same country of origin, the requesting interested party under paragraph (c) of this section must file the request pertaining to both orders on the record of both the antidumping duty and countervailing duty segments of the proceeding. If the Secretary accepts the circumvention requests on both records under paragraph (d) of this section, the Secretary will notify the requesting interested party that all subsequent filings should be filed only on the record of the antidumping duty proceeding. If the Secretary determines to initiate a circumvention inquiry under paragraph (b) or (d) of this section, the Secretary will initiate and conduct a single inquiry with respect to the product at issue for both orders only on the record of the antidumping duty proceeding. Once the Secretary issues a final circumvention determination on the record of the antidumping duty proceeding, the Secretary will include on the record of the countervailing duty proceeding copies of the final circumvention determination memoranda, the final circumvention determination _Federal Register_ notice, the preliminary circumvention determination memoranda, the preliminary circumvention determination _Federal Register_ notice, and all relevant instructions to U.S. Customs and Border Protection.


(n) *Service of circumvention inquiry request; annual inquiry service list; entry of appearance.* (1) The requirements of § 351.303(f) apply to this section, except that an interested party that submits a circumvention inquiry request under paragraph (c) of this section must serve a copy of that inquiry request on all persons on the annual inquiry service list for that order, as well as the companion order, if any, as described in paragraph (m)(2) of this section. The procedures and description pertaining to the “annual inquiry service list” are set forth in § 351.225(n)(1) through (3).


(2) Once a circumvention inquiry is self-initiated or a circumvention inquiry request is accepted by the Secretary, a segment-specific service list will be established and the requirements of § 351.303(f) will apply. Parties other than the interested party requesting a circumvention inquiry that wish to participate in the circumvention inquiry must file an entry of appearance in accordance with § 351.103(d)(1).


(o) *Suspended investigations; suspension agreements.* The Secretary may, in accordance with section 781 of the Act, apply the procedures set forth in this section in determining whether the product at issue circumvented a suspended investigation or a suspension agreement (*see* § 351.208).



---

[N] [86 FR 52377, Sept. 20, 2021, as amended at 88 FR 67078, Sept. 29, 2023; 89 FR 20834, Mar. 25, 2024]






