# § 7.67   Name and address for domestically bottled malt beverages that were bottled after importation.

(a) *General.* This section applies to domestically bottled malt beverages that were bottled after importation. See § 7.68 for name and address requirements applicable to imported malt beverages that are imported in a container. See 19 CFR parts 102 and 134 for U.S. Customs and Border Protection country of origin marking requirements.


(b) *Malt beverages that were subject to blending or other production activities after importation.* Malt beverages that were subject, after importation, to blending or other production may not bear an “imported by” statement on the label, but must instead be labeled in accordance with the rules set forth in § 7.66 with regard to mandatory and optional labeling statements.


(c) *Malt beverages bottled after importation without blending or other production activities.* The label on malt beverages that are bottled without being subject to blending or other production activities in the United States after the malt beverages were imported must state the words “imported by” or a similar appropriate phrase, followed by the name and address of the importer. The label must also state the words “bottled by” or “packed by,” followed by the name and address of the bottler, except that the following phrases are acceptable in lieu of the name and address of the bottler under the circumstances set forth below:


(1) If the malt beverages were bottled for the person responsible for the importation, the words “imported and bottled (canned, packed or filled) in the United States for” (or a similar appropriate phrase) followed by the name and address of the principal place of business in the United States of the person responsible for the importation;


(2) If the malt beverages were bottled by the person responsible for the importation, the words “imported and bottled (canned, packed or filled) in the United States by” (or a similar appropriate phrase) followed by the name and address of the principal place of business in the United States of the person responsible for the importation;


(3) In the situations set forth in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section, the address shown on the label may be that of the principal place of business of the importer who is also the bottler, provided that the address shown is a location where bottling takes place.


(d) *Use of trade names.* A trade name may be used if the trade name is listed on the importer's basic permit.




