# ยง 17.1530   Eligible entities and providers.

(a) *General.* An entity or provider is eligible to deliver care under the Veterans Choice Program if, in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, it is accessible to the veteran and is an entity or provider identified in section 101(a)(1)(B)(i)-(iv) of the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014 or is an entity identified in paragraph (e) of this section, and is either:


(1) Not a part of, or an employee of, VA; or


(2) If the provider is an employee of VA, is not acting within the scope of such employment while providing hospital care or medical services through the Veterans Choice Program.


(b) *Agreement.* An entity or provider must enter into an agreement with VA to provide non-VA hospital care or medical services to eligible veterans through one of the following types of agreements: contracts, intergovernmental agreements, or provider agreements. Each form of agreement must be executed by a duly authorized Department official.


(c) *Accessibility.* An entity or provider may only furnish hospital care or medical services to an eligible veteran if the entity or provider is accessible to the eligible veteran. VA will determine accessibility by considering the following factors:


(1) The length of time the eligible veteran would have to wait to receive hospital care or medical services from the entity or provider;


(2) The qualifications of the entity or provider to furnish the hospital care or medical services to the eligible veteran; and


(3) The distance between the eligible veteran's residence and the entity or provider.


(d) *Requirements for health care providers.* (1) To be eligible to furnish care or services under the Veterans Choice Program, a health care provider must:


(i) Maintain at least the same or similar credentials and licenses as those required of VA's health care providers, as determined by the Secretary. The agreement reached under paragraph (b) of this section will clarify these requirements. Eligible health care providers must submit verification of such licenses and credentials maintained by the provider to VA at least once per 12-month period.


(ii) Not be excluded from participation in a Federal health care program (as defined in section 1128B(f) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1320a-7b(f)) under section 1128 or 1128A of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1320a-7 and 1320a-7a)), not be identified as an excluded source on the list maintained in the System for Award Management or any successor system, and not be identified on the List of Excluded Individuals and Entities that is maintained by the Office of the Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.


(2) Any entities that are eligible to provide care through the Program must ensure that any of their providers furnishing care and services through the Program meet the standards identified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section. An eligible entity may submit this information on behalf of its providers.


(e) *Other eligible entities and providers.* In accordance with sections 101(a)(1)(B)(v) and 101(d)(5) of the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014 (as amended), the following entities or providers are eligible to deliver care under the Veterans Choice Program, subject to the additional criteria established in this section.


(1) A health care provider that is participating in a State Medicaid plan under title XIX of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 *et seq.*), including any physician furnishing services under such program, if the health care provider has an agreement under a State plan under title XIX of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 *et seq.*) or a waiver of such a plan;


(2) An Aging and Disability Resource Center, an area agency on aging, or a State agency (as defined in section 102 of the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3002)), or a center for independent living (as defined in section 702 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 796a)).


(3) A health care provider that is not identified in paragraph (e)(1) or (2) of this section, if that provider meets all requirements under paragraph (d) of this section.



---

[N] [79 FR 65585, Nov. 5, 2014, as amended at 80 FR 74996, Dec. 1, 2015; 81 FR 24027, Apr. 25, 2016]




