# § 203.258   Substitute mortgagors.

(a) *Selling mortgagor.* Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the mortgagee may effect the release of a mortgagor from personal liability on the mortgage note, only if it obtains the Commissioner's approval of a substitute mortgagor, as provided by this section. 


(b) *Purchasing mortgagor.* (1) The Commissioner may approve a substitute mortgagor with respect to any mortgage insured under § 203.43h or § 203.43i only if the mortgagor is to occupy the dwelling as a principal residence (as defined in § 203.18(f)(1)). 


(2) The Commissioner may approve a substitute mortgagor with respect to any mortgage insured under this part (except a mortgage referred to in paragraph (b)(1) of this section), only if the substitute mortgagor is to occupy the dwelling as a principal residence or as a secondary residence (as these terms are defined in § 203.18(f)) or if the substitute mortgagor is an eligible non-occupant mortgagor (as defined in § 203.18(f)). 


(3) With respect to any mortgage covering a dwelling to be occupied as a secondary residence, the loan to value ratio may not exceed 85 percent of the greater of: 


(i) The appraised value of the property at the time the mortgage is accepted for insurance; or 


(ii) The appraised value of the property at the time approval of a substitute mortgagor is requested. 


(c) *Applicability—current mortgages.* Paragraph (b) of this section applies to the Commissioner's approval of a substitute mortgagor only if the mortgage executed by the original mortgagor was insured:


(1) Pursuant to a conditional commitment or master conditional commitment issued on or after December 15, 1989; or 


(2) In accordance with the Direct Endorsement program, where the underwriter of the mortgagee signed the appraisal report or master appraisal report for the property on or after December 15, 1989;


(3) Pursuant to a certificate of reasonable value or master certificate of reasonable value issued by the Department of Veterans Affairs on or after December 15, 1989. 


(d) *Applicability—earlier mortgages.* If the mortgage was insured:


(1) Pursuant to a conditional commitment or master conditional commitment issued on or after February 5, 1988, but before December 15, 1989; or 


(2) In accordance with the Direct Endorsement program, where the approved underwriter of the mortgagee signed the appraisal report or master appraisal report for the property on or after February 5, 1988, but before December 15, 1989, or


(3) Pursuant to a certificate of reasonable value or master certificate of reasonable value issued by the Department of Veterans Affairs on or after February 5, 1988, but before December 15, 1989, the Commissioner may approve a substitute mortgagor with respect to the mortgage only if the substitute mortgagor is to occupy the dwelling as a principal residence or a secondary residence (as these terms are defined in § 203.18(f)), or is an eligible non-occupant mortgagor (as defined in the following sentence), or if the mortgage has a principal balance that is not more than 75 percent of the greater of (i) the appraised value of the property at the time the mortgage is accepted for insurance, or (ii) the appraised value of the property at the time approval of a substitute mortgagor is requested. For purposes of this paragraph (d), the term *eligible non-occupant mortgagor* has the meaning given in § 203.18(f), except that paragraph (d)(3)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section apply in place of § 203.18(f)(3) (i) and (ii). 


(A) A public entity, as provided in section 214 or 247 of the National Housing Act; and 


(B) A private nonprofit or public entity, as provided in section 221(h) or 235(j) of the National Housing Act.


(e) *Direct endorsement.* Mortgagees approved for participation in the Direct Endorsement program under § 203.3 may, subject to limitations established by the Commissioner, themselves approve an appropriate substitute mortgagor under this section for mortgages which they own or service, and need not obtain further specific approval from the Commissioner.


(f) *Definition.* As used in this section, the term *substitute mortgagor* includes: 


(1) Persons who, upon the release by a mortgagee of a previous mortgagor from personal liability on the mortgage note, assume this liability and agree to pay the mortgage debt; and 


(2) Persons who purchase without assuming liability on the mortgage note or purchase where no release is given by the mortgagee to the previous mortgagor.



---

[N] [55 FR 34806, Aug. 24, 1990, as amended at 57 FR 58349, Dec. 9, 1992; 58 FR 13537, Mar. 12, 1993; 61 FR 36453, July 10, 1996] 




