# ยง 705.4   Times, places, and requirements for identification of individuals making requests and identification of records requested.

(a) The General Counsel is the designated Privacy Act Officer for the Commission.


(b) An individual making a request to the General Counsel in person may do so at the Commission's headquarters office, 624 9th Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20425, on any business day during business hours. Persons may also appear for purposes of identification only, at any of the regional offices of the Commission on any business day during business hours. Regional offices are located as follows:


(c) An individual seeking access to records in person may establish his or her identity by the presentation of one document bearing a photograph (such as a driver's license, passport, or identification card or badge) or by the presentation of two items of identification that do not bear a photograph, but do bear both a name and address (such as a credit card). When identification is made without photographic identification, the Commission will request a signature comparison to the signature appearing on the items offered for identification, whenever possible and practical. 


(d) An individual seeking access to records by mail shall establish his or her identity by a signature, address, date of birth, and one other identification, such as a copy of a driver's license, passport, identification card or badge, credit card, or other document. The words *Privacy Act Request* should be placed in capital letters on the face of the envelope in order to facilitate requests by mail. 


(e) An individual seeking access in person or by mail who cannot provide the required documentation of identification may provide a notarized statement, swearing or affirming to his or her identity and to the fact that he or she understands that there are criminal penalties for the making of false statements. 


(f) The parent or guardian of a minor or a person judicially determined to be incompetent, in addition to establishing the identity of the minor or incompetent person he or she represents as required by paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, shall establish his or her own parentage or guardianship by furnishing a copy of a birth certificate showing parentage or court order establishing guardianship. 


(g) An individual seeking to review information about himself or herself may be accompanied by another person of his or her own choosing. In all such cases, the individual seeking access shall be required to furnish a written statement authorizing the discussion of his or her record in the presence of the accompanying person. 




