# § 176.170   Transport of Class 1 (explosive) materials in freight containers.

(a) When Class 1 (explosive) materials are stowed in a freight container, the freight container, for the purposes of this subpart, may be regarded as a closed transport unit for class 1 or a magazine but not a separate compartment.


(b) Freight containers loaded with Class 1 (explosive) materials, except for explosives in Division 1.4, must not be stowed in the outermost row of containers. 


(c) [Reserved]


(d) Class 1 (explosive) materials of different compatibility groups may not be stowed within the same freight container except as allowed in § 176.144 of this subpart.


(e) On vessels, other than specially fitted container ships, freight containers containing Class 1 (explosive) materials must be stowed only in the lowest tier.


(f) Freight containers carrying different Class 1 (explosive) materials require no segregation from each other, if the provisions of § 176.144 of this subpart allow the Class 1 (explosive) materials to be carried together in the same compartment. In all other instances, the containers must be “separated from” one another in accordance with § 176.83(f) of this part.


(g) Freight containers carrying Class 1 (explosive) materials may not be handled on board a vessel with fork lift trucks unless approved by the COTP. This does not preclude the use of front-loading trucks using side-frame lifting equipment.



---

[N] [Amdt. 176-30, 55 FR 52696, Dec. 21, 1990, as amended at 56 FR 66282, Dec. 20, 1991; 68 FR 45041, July 31, 2003; 69 FR 76185, Dec. 20, 2004; 78 FR 1095, Jan. 7, 2013]




