# ยง 983.11   Prohibition of excess public assistance.

(a) *PBV assistance for newly constructed and rehabilitated housing.* The PHA may provide PBV assistance for newly constructed and rehabilitated housing only in accordance with HUD subsidy layering regulations (24 CFR 4.13) and other requirements.


(b) *PBV assistance for existing housing.* The subsidy layering requirements are not applicable to existing housing.


(c) *Development activity before HAP contract.* For the subsidy layering requirements related to development activity to place newly constructed or rehabilitated housing under a HAP contract, see ยง 983.153(b).


(d) *Additional assistance after HAP contract.* (1) For newly constructed or rehabilitated housing under a HAP contract, the owner must disclose to the PHA, in accordance with HUD requirements, information regarding any additional related assistance from the Federal Government, a State, or a unit of general local government, or any agency or instrumentality thereof. Such related assistance includes but is not limited to any loan, grant, guarantee, insurance, payment, rebate, subsidy, credit, tax benefit, or any other form of direct or indirect assistance.


(2) If the additional related assistance in paragraph (d)(1) of this section meets certain threshold and other requirements established by HUD through publication in the _Federal Register,_ a subsidy layering review may be required to determine if it would result in excess public assistance to the project.


(3) Housing assistance payments must not be more than is necessary, as determined in accordance with HUD requirements, to provide affordable housing after taking account of such related assistance. The PHA must adjust, in accordance with HUD requirements, the amount of the housing assistance payments to the owner to compensate in whole or in part for such related assistance.





---

[N] [89 FR 38309, May 7, 2024]














