# § 1.862-1   Income specifically from sources without the United States.

(a) *Gross income.* (1) The following items of gross income shall be treated as income from sources without the United States:


(i) Interest other than that specified in section 861(a)(1) and § 1.861-2 as being derived from sources within the United States;


(ii) Dividends other than those derived from sources within the United States as provided in section 861(a)(2) and § 1.861-3;


(iii) Compensation for labor or personal services performed without the United States;


(iv) Rentals or royalties from property located without the United States or from any interest in such property, including rentals or royalties for the use of, or for the privilege of using, without the United States, patents, copyrights, secret processes and formulas, goodwill, trademarks, trade brands, franchises, and other like property;


(v) Gains, profits, and income from the sale of real property located without the United States; and


(vi) Gains, profits, and income derived from the purchase of personal property within the United States and its sale without the United States.


(2) In applying subparagraph (1)(iv) of this paragraph for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1966, gains described in section 871(a)(1)(D) and section 881(a)(4) from the sale or exchange after October 4, 1966, of patents, copyrights, and other like property shall be treated, as provided in section 871(e)(2), as rentals or royalties for the use of, or privilege of using, property or an interest in property. See paragraph (e) of § 1.871-11.


(3) For determining the time and place of sale of personal property for purposes of subparagraph (1)(vi) of this paragraph, see paragraph (c) of § 1.861-7.


(4) Income derived from the purchase of personal property within the United States and its sale within a possession of the United States shall be treated as derived entirely from within that possession.


(5) If interest is paid on an obligation of a nonresident of the United States by a resident of the United States acting in the resident's capacity as a guarantor of the obligation of the nonresident, the interest will be treated as income from sources without the United States.


(6) For rules treating certain interest as income from sources without the United States, see paragraph (b) of § 1.861-2.


(7) For the treatment of compensation for labor or personal services performed partly within the United States and partly without the United States, see paragraph (b) of § 1.861-4.


(b) *Taxable income.* The taxable income from sources without the United States, in the case of the items of gross income specified in paragraph (a) of this section, shall be determined on the same basis as that used in § 1.861-8 for determining the taxable income from sources within the United States.


(c) *Income from certain property.* For provisions permitting a taxpayer to elect to treat amounts of gross income attributable to certain aircraft or vessels first leased on or before December 28, 1980, as income from sources within the United States which would otherwise be treated as income from sources without the United States under paragraph (a) of this section, see § 1.861-9. For provisions requiring amounts of gross income attributable to certain aircraft, vessels, or spacecraft first leased by the taxpayer after December 28, 1980, to be treated as income from sources within the United States which would otherwise be treated as income from sources without the United States under paragraph (a) of this section, see § 1.861-9A.



---

[N] [T.D. 6500, 25 FR 11910, Nov. 26, 1960; 25 FR 14021, Dec. 31, 1960, as amended by T.D. 7378, 40 FR 45434, Oct. 2, 1975; 40 FR 48508, Oct. 16, 1975; T.D. 7928, 48 FR 55847, Dec. 16, 1983]




