# § 63.1456   What records must I keep and how long must I keep my records?

(a) You must keep the records listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (8) of this section.


(1) A copy of each notification and report that you submitted to comply with this subpart, including all documentation supporting any initial notification or notification of compliance status that you submitted, according to the requirements in § 63.10(b)(2)(xiv).


(2) Before November 12, 2024, the records in § 63.6(e)(3)(iii) through (v) related to startup, shutdown, and malfunction. On or after November 12, 2024, you are not required to keep the records required in § 63.6(e)(3)(iii) through (v) related to compliance with a startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan.


(3) Records of performance tests and performance evaluations as required in § 63.10(b)(2)(viii).


(4) For each monitoring system, you must keep the records specified in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) Records described in § 63.10(b)(2)(vi) through (xi).


(ii) Monitoring data recorded by the monitoring system during a performance evaluation as required in § 63.6(h)(7)(i) and (ii).


(iii) Before November 12, 2024, previous (i.e., superseded) versions of the performance evaluation plan as required in § 63.8(d)(3). On or after November 12, 2024, you must comply with the requirements in § 63.8(d)(1) and (2). The owner or operator shall keep the written procedures required in § 63.8(d)(1) and (2) on record for the life of the affected source or until the affected source is no longer subject to the provisions of this part, to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator. If the performance evaluation plan is revised, the owner or operator shall keep previous (*i.e.,* superseded) versions of the performance evaluation plan on record to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator, for a period of 5 years after each revision to the plan. The program of corrective action should be included in the plan required under § 63.8(d)(2).


(iv) Before November 12, 2024, records of the date and time that each deviation started and stopped, and whether the deviation occurred during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction or during another period. On or after November 12, 2024, for each failure to meet an applicable standard, you must record the information in paragraphs (a)(4)(iv)(A) through (D) of this section. Examples of such methods to estimate emissions include product-loss calculations, mass balance calculations, measurements, or engineering judgment based on known process parameters.


(A) The occurrence and duration of each startup, shutdown, or malfunction of process, air pollution control, and monitoring equipment.


(B) In the event that an affected unit fails to meet an applicable standard, record the number of failures. For each failure record the date, time, cause and duration of each failure.


(C) For each failure to meet an applicable standard, record and retain a list of the affected sources or equipment, whether the failure occurred during a period of startup, shutdown or malfunction, actions taken to minimize emissions, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.


(D) Record actions taken to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.1447(a), and any corrective actions taken to return the affected unit to its normal or usual manner of operation.


(5) For each performance test you conduct to demonstrate compliance with an opacity limit according to § 63.1450(c), you must keep the records specified in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) through (ix) of this section.


(i) Dates and time intervals of all opacity observation period segments;


(ii) Description of overall smelter operating conditions during each observation period. Identify, if any, the smelter copper production process equipment that was out-of-service during the performance test and explain why this equipment was not in operation;


(iii) Name, affiliation, and copy of current visible emission reading certification for each visible emission observer participating in the performance test;


(iv) Name, title, and affiliation for each indoor process monitor participating in the performance test;


(v) Copies of all visible emission observer opacity field data sheets;


(vi) Copies of all indoor process monitor operating log sheets;


(vii) Copies of all data summary sheets used for data reduction;


(viii) Copy of calculation sheets of the average opacity value used to demonstrate compliance with the opacity limit; and


(ix) Documentation according to the requirements in § 63.1450(c)(9)(iv) to support your selection of the site-specific capture system operating limits used for each batch copper converter capture system when blowing.


(6) For each baghouse subject to the operating limit in § 63.1444(i) or § 63.1446(c), you must keep the records specified in paragraphs (a)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(i) Records of alarms for each bag leak detection system.


(ii) Description of the corrective actions taken following each bag leak detection alarm.


(7) For each control device other than a baghouse or venturi wet scrubber subject to site-specific operating limits in § 63.1444(k) or § 63.1446(e), you must keep documentation according to the requirements in § 63.1450(a)(5)(iv) to support your selection of the site-specific operating limits for the control device.


(8) You must keep records of bypass stack usage, including the flow rate and operating parameter(s).


(b) Your records must be in a form suitable and readily available for expeditious review, according to § 63.10(b)(1).


(c) As specified in § 63.10(b)(1), you must keep each record for 5 years following the date of each occurrence, measurement, maintenance, corrective action, report, or record.


(d) You must keep each record on site for at least 2 years after the date of each occurrence, measurement, maintenance, corrective action, report, or record, according to § 63.10(b)(1). You can keep the records off site for the remaining 3 years.






