# ยง 1027.115   What special provisions apply for certification related to nonroad and stationary engines?

(a) For spark-ignition engines above 19 kW that we regulate under 40 CFR part 1048 and for all compression-ignition engines, the applicable fee is based only on engine families with respect to exhaust emissions.


(b) For manufacturers certifying recreational vehicles with respect to both exhaust and evaporative emission standards, fees are determined using one of the following approaches:


(1) If your engine family includes demonstration of compliance with both exhaust and evaporative emission standards, the applicable fee is based on certification related to the combined family. No separate fee applies for certification with respect to evaporative emission standards. These are all considered engine families complying with exhaust emissions for determining the number of certificates for calculating fees for later years.


(2) If you have separate families for demonstrating compliance with exhaust and evaporative emission standards, a separate fee from the appropriate fee category applies for each unique family. Also, the number of certificates issued as specified in ยง 1027.105(d)(3) is based on a separate count of emission families for exhaust and evaporative emissions for each respective fee category.


(c) For manufacturers certifying other spark-ignition engines or equipment with respect to exhaust and evaporative emission standards, a separate fee from the appropriate fee category applies for each unique family. A single engine or piece of equipment may involve separate emission families and certification fees for exhaust and evaporative emissions. Also, the number of certificates issued as specified in ยง 1027.105(d)(3) is based on a separate count of emission families for exhaust and evaporative emissions for each respective fee category.


(d) For any certification related to evaporative emissions from engines, equipment, or components not covered by paragraph (a) through (c) of this section, the fee applies for each certified product independent of certification for exhaust emissions, as illustrated in the following examples:


(1) A fuel tank certified to meet permeation and diurnal emission standards would count as a single family for assessing the certification fee and for calculating fee amounts for future years.


(2) If an equipment manufacturer applies for certification to generate or use emission credits for fuel tanks and fuel lines, each affected fuel-tank and fuel-line family would count as a single family for assessing the certification fee and for calculating fee amounts for future years. This fee applies whether or not the equipment manufacturer is applying for certification to demonstrate compliance with another emission standard, such as running losses.


(e) If you certify fuel system components under 40 CFR part 1060, a single fee applies for each emission family even if those components are used with different types of nonroad or stationary engines.


(f) If your application for certification relates to emission standards that apply only in California, you must pay the same fee identified for meeting EPA standards.


(g) For marine compression-ignition engines, if you apply for a Federal certificate and an EIAPP certificate for the same engine family, a single fee applies for the engine family (*see* 40 CFR parts 94, 1042, and 1043).


(h) If you produce engines for multiple categories in a single engine family, a single fee applies for the engine family. For example, 40 CFR 60.4210 allows you to produce stationary and nonroad compression-ignition engines in a single engine family. If the certification fee for the different types of engines is different, the fee that applies for these engines is based on the emission standards to which you certify the engine family. For example, if you certify marine diesel engines to the standards that apply to land-based nonroad diesel engines under 40 CFR 94.912, the certification fee is based on the rate that applies for land-based nonroad diesel engines.



---

[N] [73 FR 59184, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 22982, Apr. 30, 2010]




