# ยง 531.405   Waiting periods for within-grade increase.

(a) *Length of waiting period.* (1) For an employee with a scheduled tour of duty, the waiting periods for advancement to the next higher step in all General Schedule grades (or the next higher rate within the grade, as defined in ยง 531.403) are:


(i) Rate of basic pay less than the rate of basic pay at step 4-52 calendar weeks of creditable service;


(ii) Rate of basic pay equal to or greater than the rate of basic pay at step 4 and less than the rate of basic pay at step 7-104 calendar weeks of creditable service; and


(iii) Rate of basic pay equal to or greater than the rate of basic pay at step 7-156 calendar weeks of creditable service.


(2) For an employee without a scheduled tour of duty, the waiting periods for advancement to the next higher step of all General Schedule grades (or the next higher rate within the grade, as defined in ยง 531.403) are:


(i) Rate of basic pay less than the rate of basic pay at step 4-260 days of creditable service in a pay status over a period of not less than 52 calendar weeks;


(ii) Rate of basic pay equal to or greater than the rate of basic pay at step 4 and less than the rate of basic pay at step 7-520 days of creditable service in a pay status over a period of not less than 104 calendar weeks; and


(iii) Rate of basic pay equal to or greater than the rate of basic pay at step 7-780 days of creditable service in a pay status over a period of not less than 156 calendar weeks.


(b) *Commencement of a waiting period.* A waiting period begins;


(1) On the first appointment as an employee of the Federal Government, regardless of tenure;


(2) On receiving an equivalent increase; or


(3) After a period of nonpay status or a break in service (alone or in combination) in excess of 52 calendar weeks, unless the nonpay status or break in service is creditable service under ยง 531.406 of this subpart.


(c) A waiting period is not interrupted by non-workdays intervening between an employee's last scheduled workday in one position and his or her first scheduled workday in a new position.



---

[N] [46 FR 2319, Jan. 9, 1981, as amended at 58 FR 65536, Dec. 15, 1993; 59 FR 40794, Aug. 10, 1994]




