# § 1901.503   Definitions.

(a) As used in §§ 1901.505, 1901.507, 1901.508 and 1901.509 the following definitions will apply:


(1) *Announcement of sale.* Any notice of terms and conditions respecting a sale of certificates.


(2) *Certificate.* A certificate of beneficial ownership issued by Rural Development under this subpart.


(3) *Director, Finance Office.* The Director or the Insured Loan Officer of the Finance Office of Rural Development.


(4) *Rural Development.* The United States acting through the Rural Housing Service, the Rural Utilities Service, or the Rural Business-Cooperative Service or their successor agencies.


(5) *Finance Office.* The office which maintains the Rural Development finance records. It is located at 1520 Market Street, St. Louis, Missouri 63103. (Phone: 314-425-4400)


(6) *Fixed period.* Any time interval (preceding an option period) during which the insured holder is not entitled to require Rural Development to purchase the insured note, as specified in the insurance agreement.


(7) *Insurance agreement.* The entire contract evidencing and setting forth the terms and conditions of Rural Development insurance of the payment for the insured note. The insurance agreement with respect to any particular loan may be evidenced by Form RD 440-5, “Insurance Endorsement (Insured Loan),” RD 440-30, “Insurance Endorsement (Insure Loans),” or any other form or forms prescribed by the National Office and executed by an authorized official of Rural Development. It may include such provisions as, for example, an agreement of Rural Development to purchase or repurchase the loan, or to make supplementary payments from the insurance fund.


(8) *Insurance fund.* The Agricultural Credit Insurance Fund authorized by section 309 of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, the Rural Development Insurance Fund authorized by section 309A of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, or the Rural Housing Insurance Fund authorized by section 517 of title V of the Housing Act of 1949.


(9) *Insured holder.* The current owner of an insured note other than Rural Development, according to the records of Rural Development as insurer of the note.


(10) *Insured note.* Any promissory note or bond evidencing an insured loan regardless of whether it is held by Rural Development in the insurance fund, by a private holder, or by Rural Development as trustee.


(11) *Loan.* Loans made and held in the Agricultural Credit Insurance Fund, Rural Development Insurance Fund, or the Rural Housing Insurance Fund.


(12) *National Office.* The Administrator or other authorized officer of Rural Development in Washington, DC.


(13) *Option period.* Any period during which the insured holder has the optional right to require Rural Development to purchase the insured note, as specified in the insurance agreement.


(14) *Par value.* The total amount to which the insured holder is entitled under the terms of the insurance agreement.


(15) *Private buyer.* A buyer of an insured note other than Rural Development.


(16) *Private holder.* An insured holder other than Rural Development.


(17) *Repurchase agreement.* A provision in the insurance agreement obligating Rural Development to buy the insured note at the option of the holders.


(18) *Sale, or seller, and buyer.* The transfer of ownership (including possession or the right of possession), the transferor, and the transferee respectively.


(19) *State Director.* The State Director of Rural Development for the State in which is located the real estate improved, purchased, or refinanced with the loan evidenced by the insured note.


(b) As used in § 1901.506 the following definitions will apply:


(1) *Reserve bank.* The Federal Reserve Bank of New York (and any other Federal Reserve Bank which agrees to issue securities in book-entry form) as fiscal agent of the United States acting on behalf of Rural Development and, when indicated, acting in its individual capacity.


(2) *Rural Development security.* A certificate representing beneficial ownership of notes, bonds, debentures, or other similar obligations held by Rural Development under the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act and title V of the Housing Act of 1949, issued in the form of a definitive Rural Development security or a book-entry Rural Development security.


(3) *Definitive Rural Development security.* A Rural Development security in engraved on printed form.


(4) *Book-entry Rural Development security.* A Rural Development security in the form of an entry made as prescribed in this subpart on the records of a Reserve bank.


(5) *Pledge.* A pledge of, or any other security interest in, Rural Development securities as collateral for loans or advances, or to secure deposits of public moneys or the performance of an obligation.


(6) *Date of call.* The date fixed in the official notice of call published in the _Federal Register_ on which Rural Development will make payment of the security before maturity in accordance with its terms.


(7) *Member bank.* Any national bank, state bank, or bank or trust company which is a member of a Reserve bank.



---

[N] [41 FR 51799, Nov. 24, 1976, as amended at 80 FR 9868, Feb. 24, 2015]




