# § 203.11   Same-day reporting and payment mechanisms.

(a) *General.* A financial institution or its authorized correspondent may initiate same-day reporting and payment transactions on behalf of taxpayers. A same-day payment must be received by the FRB by the deadline established by Treasury in the procedural instructions.


(b) *Fedwire* ® *non-value transaction.* By initiating a Fedwire ® non-value transaction, a financial institution authorizes the TSC to debit its reserve account for the amount of the Federal tax payment specified in the transaction.


(1) For an investor or retainer depositary using a Fedwire ® non-value transaction, the TSC will credit the Federal tax payment amount, up to the depositary's available TIP main account balance capacity, to the depositary's TIP main account balance on the day of the transaction. Throughout the course of the day, the TSC will debit from the depositary's reserve account, and credit to the TGA, any portion of a tax payment amount that would exceed the institution's available TIP main account balance capacity.


(2) For a collector depositary or a non-TT&L depositary financial institution using a Fedwire ® non-value transaction, the TSC will debit the financial institution's reserve account for the Federal tax payment amount and credit that amount to the TGA on the day of the transaction.


(c) *Cancellations and reversals.* In addition to cancellations due to insufficient funds in the financial institution's reserve account, the FRB may reverse a same-day transaction:


(1) If the transaction:


(i) Is originated by a financial institution after the deadline established by Treasury in the procedural instructions;


(ii) Has an unenrolled taxpayer identification number; or


(iii) Does not meet the edit and format requirements set forth in the procedural instructions; or


(2) At the direction of the IRS, for the following reasons:


(i) Incorrect taxpayer name;


(ii) Overpayment; or


(iii) Unidentified payment; or


(3) At the request of the financial institution that sent the same-day transaction, if the request is made prior to the payment day deadline established by Treasury in the procedural instructions.


(d) Other than as stated in paragraph (c) of this section, Treasury is not obligated to reverse all or any part of a payment.




