# § 184.1009   Adipic acid.

(a) Adipic acid (C_6_H_10_O_4_, CAS Reg. No. 00124-04-9) is also known as 1,4-butanedicarboxylic acid or hexane-dioic acid. It is prepared by nitric acid oxidation of cyclohexanol or cyclohexanone or a mixture of the two.


(b) The ingredient meets the specifications of the Food Chemicals Codex, 3d Ed. (1981), p. 11, which is incorporated by reference (Copies are available from the National Academy Press, 2101 Constitution Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20418, or available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*), and the following additional specifications:


(1) The adipic acid is converted to its corresponding amide. The amide is purified by recrystallization from water or aqueous ethanol. The melting range of the amide is 219° to 220 °C.


(2) The adipic acid is converted to its corresponding *bis-p-p-*bromophenacyl ester. The ester is purified by recrystallization from ethanol. The melting range of the ester is 153° to 154 °C.


(c) The ingredient is used as a flavoring agent as defined in § 170.3(o)(12) of this chapter; leavening agent as defined in § 170.3(o)(17) of this chapter; and pH control agent as defined in § 170.3(o)(23) of this chapter.


(d) The ingredient is used in foods at levels not to exceed current good manufacturing practice in accordance with § 184.1(b)(1). Current good manufacturing practice results in maximum levels, as served, of 0.05 percent for baked goods as defined in § 170.3(n)(1) of this chapter; 0.005 percent for nonalcoholic beverages as defined in § 170.3(n)(3) of this chapter; 5.0 percent for condiments and relishes as defined in § 170.3(n)(8) of this chapter; 0.45 percent for dairy product analogs as defined in § 170.3(n)(10) of this chapter; 0.3 percent for fats and oil as defined in § 170.3(n)(12) of this chapter; 0.0004 percent for frozen dairy desserts as defined in § 170.3(n)(20) of this chapter; 0.55 percent for gelatin and puddings as defined in § 170.3(n)(22) of this chapter; 0.1 percent for gravies as defined in § 170.3(n)(24) of this chapter; 0.3 percent for meat products as defined in § 170.3(n)(29) of this chapter; 1.3 percent for snack foods as defined in § 170.3(n)(37) of this chapter; and 0.02 percent or less for all other food categories.


(e) Prior sanctions for adipic acid different from the uses established in this section do not exist or have been waived.



---

[N] [47 FR 27810, June 25, 1982]




