# § 63.527   Recordkeeping requirements.

(a) The owner or operator of any affected BLR source shall keep records of daily average values of equipment operating parameters specified to be monitored under § 63.526(a) or specified by the Administrator. Records shall be kept in accordance with the requirements of applicable paragraphs of § 63.10 of subpart A of this part, as specified in the General Provisions applicability table of this subpart. The owner or operator shall keep records up-to-date and readily accessible.


(1) A daily (24-hour) average shall be calculated as the average of all values for a monitored parameter recorded during the operating day. The average shall cover a 24-hour period if operation is continuous, or the number of hours of operation per operating day if operation is not continuous.


(2) The operating day shall be the period defined in the operating permit or the Notification of Compliance Status in § 63.9(h) of subpart A of this part. It may be from midnight to midnight or another continuous 24-hour period.


(3) In the event of an excursion, the owner or operator must keep records of each 15-minute reading during the period in which the excursion occurred.


(b) The owner or operator of any affected WSR source subject to the emission limit for process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater systems and/or subject to the dioxins and furans emission limit for process vents shall keep records of values of equipment operating parameters specified to be monitored under § 63.526(b) or specified by the Administrator. The records that shall be kept are the average values of operating parameters, determined for the duration of each unit operation. Records shall be kept in accordance with the requirements of applicable paragraphs of § 63.10, as specified in the General Provisions applicability table in this subpart. The owner or operator shall keep records up-to-date and readily accessible. In the event of an excursion, the owner or operator must keep records of each 15-minute reading for the entire unit operation in which the excursion occurred.




(c) The owner or operator of any affected BLR source, as well the owner or operator of any affected WSR source that is subject to the emission limit for process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater systems, who demonstrates that certain process vents are below the de minimis cutoff for continuous monitoring specified in § 63.526(a)(1)(i), shall maintain up-to-date, readily accessible records of the following information to document that a HAP emission rate of less than one pound per year is maintained:




(1) The information used to determine de minimis status for each de minimis process vent, as specified in § 63.526(a)(1)(i); 


(2) Any process changes as defined in § 63.115(e) of subpart G of this part that increase the HAP emission rate;


(3) Any recalculation or measurement of the HAP emission rate pursuant to § 63.115(e) of subpart G of this part; and


(4) Whether or not the HAP emission rate increases to one pound per year or greater as a result of the process change.


(d) The owner or operator of any affected BLR source, as well as the owner or operator of any affected WSR source subject to the leak detection and repair program specified in subpart H of this part, shall implement the recordkeeping requirements outlined therein. All records shall be retained for a period of 5 years, in accordance with the requirements of 40 CFR 63.10(b)(1).




(e) Any excursion from the required monitoring parameter, unless otherwise excused, shall be considered a violation of the emission standard.


(f) For each existing, new, or reconstructed affected BLR and WSR source, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.521(c), the owner or operator of any affected BLR source, as well the owner or operator of any affected WSR source subject to the emission limit for process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater systems, must keep the records specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (3) of this section each pressure relief device, as defined in § 63.522.


(1) The start and end time and date of each pressure release to the atmosphere.


(2) An estimate of the mass quantity in pounds of each organic HAP released.


(3) Records of any data, assumptions, and calculations used to estimate of the mass quantity of each organic HAP released during the event.




(g) For each existing, new, or reconstructed affected BLR and WSR source, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.521(c), the owner or operator of any affected BLR source, as well the owner or operator of any affected WSR source subject to the emission limit for process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater systems, must keep the records specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (3) of this section for each maintenance vent release. A process vent is considered a maintenance vent if the process vent is only used as a result of startup, shutdown, maintenance, or inspection of equipment where equipment is emptied, depressurized, degassed, or placed into service.


(1) Identification of the maintenance vent and the equipment served by the maintenance vent.


(2) The date and time the maintenance vent was opened to the atmosphere.


(3) An estimate of the mass in pounds of organic HAP released during the entire atmospheric venting event.



---

[N] [60 FR 12676, Mar. 8, 1995, as amended at 89 FR 43273, May 16, 2024] 




