# § 4270.14   Reporting and recordkeeping.

(a) *Providing product information to Federal agencies*—(1) *Informational website.* An informational USDA website implementing section 9002 of FSRIA can be found at: *biopreferred.gov.* USDA will maintain a web-based information site for participating originations with Certified Biobased Products and Federal agencies to exchange information, as described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section as applicable.


(i) *Product information.* The website will, as determined to be necessary by the Secretary based on the availability of data, provide the information specified in § 4270.9. USDA encourages Federal agencies to utilize this website to obtain current information on designated categories, contact information for Participating Organizations, and access to information on product characteristics relevant to procurement decisions. In addition to any information provided on the website, participants are expected to provide relevant information to Federal agencies, subject to the limitations specified in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, with respect to product characteristics, including verification of such characteristics if requested.


(ii) *Providing information on price and environmental and health benefits.* Federal agencies may not require Participating Organizations with Certified Biobased Products to provide procuring agencies with more data than would be required of other manufacturers or vendors offering products for sale to a Procuring Agency (aside from data confirming the Biobased Contents of the products) as a condition of the purchase of Biobased Products from the participant. USDA encourages industry Stakeholders to provide information on environmental and public health benefits based on industry accepted analytical approaches including, but not limited to, material carbon footprint analysis, the International Standards Organization (ISO) 14040, the ASTM International life-cycle cost method (E917) and multi-attribute decision analysis (E1765), and the British Standard Institution PAS 2050. USDA will make such Stakeholder-supplied information available on the BioPreferred Program website (*biopreferred.gov*).


(iii) *Industry standards test information.* The product information will include any relevant industry standard test information as supplied by the participant. In assessing performance of a Certified Biobased Product, USDA requires that procuring agencies rely on results of performance tests using applicable ASTM, ISO, Federal or military specifications, or other similarly authoritative industry test standards. Such testing may be conducted by a laboratory compliant with the requirements of the standards body. The procuring official will decide whether performance data must be brand-name specific in the case of products that are essentially of the same formulation.


(iv) *Biodegradability information.* If Biodegradability is claimed by a participant with a Certified Biobased Product as a characteristic of that product, USDA requires that, if requested by procuring agencies, these claims be verified using the appropriate, product-specific ASTM Biodegradability standard(s). Such testing must be conducted by an ASTM/ISO-compliant laboratory. The procuring official will decide whether Biodegradability data must be brand-name specific in the case of products that are essentially of the same formulation. ASTM Biodegradability standards include:


(A) D5338 (Standard Test Method for Determining Aerobic Biodegradation of Plastic Materials Under Controlled Composting Conditions);


(B) D5864 (Standard Test Method for Determining the Aerobic Aquatic Biodegradation of Lubricants or Their Components);


(C) D5988 (Standard Test Method for Determining Aerobic Biodegradation of Plastic Materials in Soil);


(D) D6006 (Standard Guide for Assessing Biodegradability of Hydraulic Fluids);


(E) D6400 (Standard Specification for Compostable Plastics) and the standards cited therein;


(F) D6139 (Standard Test Method for Determining the Aerobic Aquatic Biodegradation of Lubricants of Their Components Using the Gledhill Shake Flask);


(G) D6868 (Standard Specification for Biodegradable Plastics Used as Coatings on Paper and Other Compostable Substrates); and


(H) D7081 (Standard Specification for Non-Floating Biodegradable Plastics in the Marine Environment).


(2) *Advertising, labeling, and marketing claims.* Participating Organizations are reminded that their advertising, labeling, and other marketing claims, including claims regarding health and environmental benefits of the product, must conform to 16 CFR part 260 (Federal Trade Commission Guides for the Use of Environmental Marketing Claims). For further requirements on marketing claims associated with the BioPreferred Program, refer to the “USDA BioPreferred Program Brand and Marketing Guidelines” found on the BioPreferred Program website (*biopreferred.gov*).


(b) *Records.* Participating Organizations will maintain records documenting compliance with this part for each product that has received a notice of certification, as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) The results of all tests, and any associated calculations, performed to determine the Biobased Content of the product.


(2) The notice of certification from USDA, the dates of changes in formulation that affect the Biobased Content of Certified Biobased Products, and the dates when the Biobased Content of Certified Biobased Products were tested.


(3) Documentation of analyses performed by participants to support claims of environmental or human health benefits, life cycle cost, sustainability benefits, and product performance made by the participant.


(c) *Record retention.* For each Certified Biobased Product, records kept under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section must be maintained for at least three years beyond the end of the certification period (*i.e.,* three years beyond the date the product's term of certification expires). Records may be kept in either electronic format or hard copy format. All records kept in electronic format must be readily accessible and/or provided by request.






