# § 460.98   Service delivery.

(a) *Access to services.* A PACE organization is responsible for providing care that meets the needs of each participant across all care settings, 24 hours a day, every day of the year, and must establish and implement a written plan to ensure that care is appropriately furnished.


(b) *Provision of services.* (1) The PACE organization must furnish comprehensive medical, health, and social services that integrate acute and long-term care. These services must be furnished in accordance with § 460.70(a).


(2) These services must be furnished in at least the PACE center, the home, and inpatient facilities.


(3) The PACE organization shall not discriminate against any participant in the delivery of required PACE services based on race, ethnicity, national origin, religion, sex (including sex characteristics, including intersex traits; pregnancy or related conditions; sexual orientation; gender identity; and sex stereotypes), age, mental or physical disability, or source of payment.


(4) The PACE organization must document, track and monitor the provision of services across all care settings in order to ensure the interdisciplinary team remains alert to the participant's medical, physical, emotional, and social needs regardless of whether services are formally incorporated into the participant's plan of care.


(c) *Timeframes for arranging and providing services*—(1) *Medications.* The PACE organization must arrange and schedule the dispensing of medications as expeditiously as the participant's condition requires, but no later than 24 hours after a primary care provider orders the medication.


(2) *All other services.* The PACE organization must arrange or schedule the delivery of interdisciplinary team approved services, other than medications, as identified in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, as expeditiously as the participant's health condition requires, but no later than 7 calendar days after the date the interdisciplinary team or member of the interdisciplinary team first approves the service, except as identified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.


(i) Interdisciplinary team approved services include:


(A) Services approved by the full interdisciplinary team.


(B) Services approved by a member of the interdisciplinary team.


(C) Services ordered by a member of the interdisciplinary team.


(D) Care planned services.


(ii) [Reserved]


(3) *Routine or preventative services.* Routine or preventive services are excluded from the requirement in paragraph (c)(2) of this section when all of the following requirements are met:


(i) The PACE organization documents that they were unable to schedule the appointment due to circumstances beyond the control of the PACE organization.


(ii) The participant does not have a change in status that requires the service to be provided more quickly.


(iii) The PACE organization provides the service as expeditiously as the participant's condition requires.


(4) *Providing approved services.* Services must be provided as expeditiously as the participant's health condition requires, taking into account the participant's medical, physical, social, and emotional needs.


(d) *Minimum services furnished at each PACE center.* At a minimum, the following services must be furnished at each PACE center:


(1) Primary care, including services furnished by a primary care provider as defined in § 460.102(c) and nursing services.


(2) Social services.


(3) Restorative therapies, including physical therapy and occupational therapy.


(4) Personal care and supportive services.


(5) Nutritional counseling.


(6) Recreational therapy.


(7) Meals.


(e) *PACE center operation.* (1) A PACE organization must operate at least one PACE center either in, or contiguous to, its defined service area with sufficient capacity to allow routine attendance by participants.


(2) A PACE organization must ensure accessible and adequate services to meet the needs of its participants. If necessary, a PACE organization must increase the number of PACE centers, staff, or other PACE services.


(3) If a PACE organization operates more than one center, each PACE center must offer the full range of services and have sufficient staff to meet the needs of participants.


(f) *Center attendance.* The frequency of a participant's attendance at a center is determined by the interdisciplinary team, based on the needs and preferences of each participant.



---

[N] [64 FR 66279, Nov. 24, 1999, as amended at 71 FR 71334, 71335, Dec. 8, 2006; 84 FR 25674, June 3, 2019; 85 FR 37243, June 19, 2020; 86 FR 6132, Jan. 19, 2021; 89 FR 30845, Apr. 23, 2024; 89 FR 37692, May 6, 2024]




