# ยง 1787.2   Definitions.

For purpose of this part, the following terms have the following meanings:


*Administrator.* The Administrator of the RUS, or his/her designee.


*Buy American.* A provision of the RE Act requiring that loan funds only be used to purchase products made in the U.S. or an eligible country.


*Component.* Any article, material, or supply, whether manufactured or unmanufactured, that is directly incorporated into the end product at the final assembly location.


*Domestic product.* A product or like product which both:


(1) Is manufactured in the United States or in any eligible country; and


(2) Contains components manufactured in the United States or in any eligible country consisting of more than 50 percent of the total cost of all components used in the product.


*Eligible country.* Any country that the United States Trade Representative determines as having corporations located therein, as eligible to enter into contract with an RUS Borrower, under which loan funds will be provided for unmanufactured and manufactured goods.


*Loan funds.* Funds provided under an RUS direct or guaranteed loan.


*Manufactured.* The application of processes to alter the form or function of materials or of elements of the product such that value is added or the materials or elements are transformed into a new end product functionally different from that which would result from mere assembly of the materials or elements.


*Nondomestic bid.* An offer to sell a nondomestic product to an RUS borrower.


*Nondomestic product.* Any product other than a domestic product or product from an eligible country.


*Product.* An item of manufactured material or assembled components, which is complete and capable of performing an intended practical purpose.


*RE Act.* Rural Electrification Act of 1936, as amended (7 U.S.C. 901 *et seq.*).


*RUS.* The Rural Utilities Service.


*RUS Borrower.* Any organization that has an outstanding RUS loan made or guaranteed by RUS pursuant to the RE Act.


*Telecommunications.* Any communication service for the transmission or reception of voice, data, sounds, signals, pictures, writings, or signs of all kinds, by wire, fiber, radio, light, or other visual or electromagnetic means, including all telephone lines, facilities, or systems used in the rendition of such service; but shall not be deemed to mean message telegram service or community antenna television system services or broadcasting facilities other than those intended exclusively for educational purposes, or radio broadcasting services or facilities within the meaning of section 3(o) of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended.


*Unmanufactured.* With respect to articles, materials, or supplies, refers to such goods that have not been manufactured.




