# § 49.158   Synthetic minor source permits.

You may obtain a synthetic minor source permit under this program to establish a synthetic minor source for purposes of the applicable PSD, nonattainment major NSR or Clean Air Act title V program and/or a synthetic minor HAP source for purposes of part 63 of the Act or the applicable Clean Air Act title V program. Any source that becomes a synthetic minor source for NSR and title V purposes but has other applicable requirements or becomes a synthetic minor for NSR but is major for title V purposes, remains subject to the applicable title V program. Note that if you propose to construct or modify a synthetic minor source, you are also subject to the preconstruction permitting requirements in §§ 49.154 and 49.155, except for the permit application content and permit application completeness provisions included in § 49.154(a)(2) and § 49.154(b).


(a) *What information must my synthetic minor source permit application contain?*

(1) Your application must include the following information:


(i) Identifying information, including your name and address (and plant name and address if different) and the name and telephone number of the plant manager/contact.


(ii) For each regulated NSR pollutant and/or HAP and for all emissions units to be covered by an emissions limitation, the following information:


(A) The proposed emission limitation and a description of its effect on actual emissions or the potential to emit. Proposed emission limitations must have a reasonably short averaging period, taking into consideration the operation of the source and the methods to be used for demonstrating compliance.


(B) Proposed testing, monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting requirements to be used to demonstrate and assure compliance with the proposed limitation.


(C) A description of the production processes.


(D) Identification of the emissions units.


(E) Type and quantity of fuels and/or raw materials used.


(F) Description and estimated efficiency of air pollution control equipment under present or anticipated operating conditions.


(G) Estimates of the current actual emissions and current potential to emit, including all calculations for the estimates.


(H) Estimates of the allowable emissions and/or potential to emit that would result from compliance with the proposed limitation, including all calculations for the estimates.


(iii) Any other information specifically requested by the reviewing authority.


(2) Estimates of actual emissions must be based upon actual test data or in the absence of such data, upon procedures acceptable to the reviewing authority. Any emission estimates submitted to the reviewing authority must be verifiable using currently accepted engineering criteria. The following procedures are generally acceptable for estimating emissions from air pollution sources:


(i) Source-specific emission tests;


(ii) Mass balance calculations;


(iii) Published, verifiable emission factors that are applicable to the source;


(iv) Other engineering calculations or


(v) Other procedures to estimate emissions specifically approved by the reviewing authority.


(b) *What are the procedures for obtaining a synthetic minor source permit?*

(1) If you wish to obtain a synthetic minor source permit under this program, you must submit a permit application to the reviewing authority. The application must contain the information specified in paragraph (a) of this section.


(2) Within 60 days after receipt of an application, the reviewing authority will determine if it contains the information specified in paragraph (a) of this section.


(3) If the reviewing authority determines that the application is not complete, it will request additional information from you as necessary to process the application. If the reviewing authority determines that the application is complete, it will notify you in writing. The reviewing authority's completeness determination or request for additional information should be postmarked within 60 days of receipt of the permit application by the reviewing authority. If you do not receive a request for additional information or a notice of complete application postmarked within 60 days of receipt of the permit application by the reviewing authority, your application will be deemed complete


(4) The reviewing authority will prepare a draft synthetic minor source permit that describes the proposed limitation and its effect on the potential to emit of the source.


(5) The reviewing authority must provide an opportunity for public participation and public comment on the draft synthetic minor source permit as set out in § 49.157.


(6) After the close of the public comment period, the reviewing authority will review all comments received and prepare a final synthetic minor source permit.


(7) The final synthetic minor source permit will be granted or denied no later than 1 year after the date the application is deemed complete and all additional information necessary to make an informed decision has been provided.


(8) The final synthetic minor source permit will be issued and will be subject to administrative and judicial review as set out in § 49.159.


(c) *What are my responsibilities under this program for my source that already has synthetic minor source or synthetic minor HAP source status prior to the effective date of this rule (that is, prior to August 30, 2011)**?*

(1) If your existing synthetic minor source and/or synthetic minor HAP source was established pursuant to the FIPs applicable to the Indian reservations in Idaho, Oregon and Washington or was established under an EPA-approved rule or permit program limiting potential to emit, you do not need to take any action under this program unless you propose a modification for this existing synthetic minor source and/or synthetic minor HAP source on or after August 30, 2011. For these modifications, you need to obtain a permit pursuant to § 49.158 before you begin construction.


(2) If your existing synthetic minor source and/or synthetic minor HAP source was established under a permit with enforceable emissions limitations issued pursuant to part 71 of this chapter, the reviewing authority has the discretion to do any of the following:


(i) Allow you to maintain the synthetic minor status for your source through your permit under part 71 of this chapter, including subsequent renewals of that permit.


(ii) Require you to submit an application for a synthetic minor source permit under this program by September 4, 2012, subject to the provisions in paragraphs (a) and (c)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section. The reviewing authority also has the discretion to require any additional requirements, including control technology requirements, based on the specific circumstances of the source.


(iii) Require you to submit an application for a synthetic minor source permit under this program at the same time that you apply to renew your permit under part 71 of this chapter, subject to the provisions in paragraphs (a) and (c)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section. The reviewing authority also has the discretion to require any additional requirements, including control technology requirements, based on the specific circumstances of the source.


(3) If your existing synthetic minor source and/or synthetic minor HAP source was established through a mechanism other than those described in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section, you must submit an application for a synthetic minor source permit under this program by September 4, 2012, subject to the provisions in paragraphs (a) and (c)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section


(4) If you are required to obtain a synthetic minor source permit under this program for your existing synthetic minor source and/or synthetic minor HAP source, the following provisions apply:


(i) After submitting your synthetic minor source permit application, you must respond in a timely manner to any requests from the reviewing authority for additional information.


(ii) Provided that you submit your application as required in paragraph (c)(2)(ii), (c)(2)(iii) or (c)(3) (as applicable) and any requested additional information as required in paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section, your source will continue to be considered a synthetic minor source or synthetic minor HAP source (as applicable) until your synthetic minor source permit under this program has been issued. Issuance of your synthetic minor source permit under this program will be in accordance with the applicable requirements in §§ 49.154 and 49.155 and all other provisions under this section.


(iii) Should you fail to submit your application as required in paragraph (c)(2)(ii), (c)(2)(iii) or (c)(3) (as applicable) or any requested additional information as required in paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section, your source will no longer be considered a synthetic minor source or synthetic minor HAP source (as applicable) and will become subject to all requirements for major sources. In the case of sources subject to section (c)(2)(iii) of this section, the renewed part 71 permit will not contain enforceable emissions limitations and instead will include applicable major source requirements.



---

[N] [76 FR 38788, July 1, 2011, as amended at 79 FR 31044, May 30, 2014]




