# § 48.6416(b)(2)-2   Exportations, uses, sales, and resales included.

(a) *In general.* The tax paid under chapter 32 (or under section 4041(a) or (d) in respect of sales or under section 4051) with respect to any article is considered to be an overpayment in the case of any exportation, use, sale, or resale described in this section. This section applies only in those cases in which the exportation, use, sale, or resale (or any combination thereof) referred to in this section occurs before any other use. In addition, the following restrictions must be taken into account in applying the regulations under section 6416(b)(2): 


(1) Sections 6416(b)(2)(C) and (D) do not apply to any tax paid under section 4064 (gas guzzler tax). 


(2) Sections 6416(b)(2)(B), (C), and (D) do not apply to any tax paid under section 4131 (vaccine tax) and section 6416(b)(2)(A) applies only to the extent prescribed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. 


(3) Section 6416(b)(2) does not apply to any tax paid under section 4041(a)(1) or 4081 on diesel fuel or kerosene, section 4091 (aviation fuel tax), or section 4121 (coal tax). 


(4) Beginning on January 1, 2013, sections 6416(b)(2)(B), (C), (D), and (E) do not apply to any tax paid under section 4191 (medical device tax).


(b) *Exportation of tax-paid articles*—(1) *In general.* Subject to the limitations of section 6416(b)(2) and paragraph (b)(2) of this section, tax paid under chapter 31 or 32 on the sale of any article will be considered to be an overpayment under section 6416(b)(2)(A) if the article is exported by any person. Except in the case of articles subject to the tax imposed by section 4061(a), prior to April 1, 1983, it is immaterial for purposes of this paragraph (b), whether the person who made the taxable sale had knowledge at the time of the sale that the article or fuel was being purchased for export to a foreign country or shipment to a possession of the United States. See § 48.6416(e)-1 for the circumstances under which a claim for refund by reason of the exportation of an article may be claimed by the exporter or shipper, rather than by the person who paid the tax. For definition of the term “possession of the United States”, see § 48.0-2(a)(11).


(2) *Rule for exportation of vaccines.* Paragraph (b)(1) of this section applies to tax paid under section 4131 on the sale of a vaccine, but only if the sale by the manufacturer occurs after August 10, 1993, and, in the case of vaccine sold to the United States or any of its agencies or instrumentalities, the condition of § 48.4221-3(e)(2) is satisfied.


(c) *Supplies for vessels or aircraft.* A payment of tax under chapter 32 on the sale of any article, or under section 4041 (a)(1) or (a)(2) on the sale of diesel fuel or special motor fuel, will be considered to be an overpayment under section 6416(b)(2)(B) if the article or fuel is used by any person, or is sold by any person for use by the purchaser, as supplies for vessels or aircraft.


The term “supplies for vessels or aircraft”, as used in this paragraph, has the same meaning as when used in sections 4041(g), 4221(a)(3), 4221(d)(3), and 4221(e)(1), and the regulations thereunder.


(d) *Use by State or local government.* A payment of tax under chapter 32 on the sale of any article, or under section 4041 (a)(1) or (a)(2) on the sale of diesel fuel or special motor fuel, will be considered to be an overpayment under section 6416(b)(2)(C) if the article of fuel is sold by any person to a State, any political subdivision thereof, or the District of Columbia for the exclusive use of a State, any political subdivision thereof, or the District of Columbia. For provisions relating to tax-free sales to a State, any political subdivision thereof, or the District of Columbia, see section 4221(a)(4) and the regulations thereunder.


(e) *Use by nonprofit educational organization.* A payment of tax under chapter 32 on the sale of any article, or under section 4041 (a)(1) or (a)(2) on the sale of diesel fuel or special motor fuel, will be considered to be an overpayment under section 6416(b)(2)(D) if the article or fuel is sold by any person to a nonprofit educational organization for its exclusive use. The term “nonprofit educational organization”, as used in this paragraph (e), has the same meaning as when used in section 4221 (a)(5) or (d)(5), whichever applies, and the regulations thereunder.


(f) *Tax-paid tires or inner tubes resold for use in further manufacture.* A payment of tax under section 4071 on the sale of a tire or, prior to January 1, 1984, on the sale of an inner tube will be considered to be an overpayment under section 6416(b)(2)(E) if—


(1) The tire or inner tube is, after the original sale of the article by the manufacturer, resold by any person to another manufacturer;


(2) The other manufacturer sells the tire or inner tube on or in connection with, or with the sale of, any other article manufactured or produced by the other manufacturer; and


(3) That other article is by any person either—


(i) Exported to a foreign country or to a possession of the United States, 


(ii) Sold to a State, any political subdivision thereof, or the District of Columbia for the exclusive use of a State, any political subdivision thereof, or the District of Columbia,


(iii) Sold to a nonprofit educational organization for its exclusive use, or


(iv) Used or sold for use as supplies for vessels or aircraft.



---

[N] [T.D. 8043, 50 FR 32027, Aug. 8, 1985, as amended by T.D. 8561, 59 FR 43045, Aug. 22, 1994; T.D. 8659, 61 FR 10463, Mar. 14, 1996; T.D. 8879, 65 FR 17160, Mar. 31, 2000; T.D. 9604, 77 FR 72938, Dec. 7, 2012]




