# § 60.125   Notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements.

(a) The owner or operator shall comply with the applicable notification and recordkeeping requirements specified in § 60.7 and the reporting requirements specified in the NSPS General Provisions § 60.19.


(1) Records shall be maintained in a form suitable and readily available for expeditious review, according to § 60.7(f). However, electronic recordkeeping and reporting may be used if suitable for the specific case (*e.g.,* by electronic media such as Excel spreadsheet, on CD or hard copy), and when required by this subpart.


(2) Records shall be kept on site for at least 2 years after the date of occurrence, measurement, maintenance, corrective action, report, or record, according to § 60.7(f).


(b) The SOP manual required in § 60.124(b) shall be submitted to the Administrator in electronic format for review and approval of the initial submittal and whenever an update is made to the procedure.


(c) The owner or operator shall maintain for a period of 2 years, records of the information listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (10) of this section.


(1) Electronic records of the bag leak detection system output.


(2) An identification of the date and time of all bag leak detection system alarms, the time that procedures to determine the cause of the alarm were initiated, the cause of the alarm, an explanation of the corrective actions taken, and the date and time the cause of the alarm was corrected.


(3) All records of inspections and maintenance activities required under § 60.124(d) as part of the practices described in the SOP manual for baghouses required under § 60.124(b).


(4) Electronic records of the pressure drop and water flow rate values for wet scrubbers used to control PM emissions from blast or reverberatory furnaces as required in § 60.124(j).


(5) Records of the occurrence and duration of each malfunction of operation (*i.e.,* process equipment) or the air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment.


(6) Records of actions taken during periods of malfunction to minimize emissions in accordance with § 60.11(d), including corrective actions to restore malfunctioning process and air pollution control and monitoring equipment to its normal or usual manner of operation.


(7) Records of all alarms from the bag leak detection system specified in § 60.124(d)(9).


(8) Records maintained as part of the practices described in the SOP manual for baghouses required under § 60.124(b), including an explanation of the periods when the procedures were not followed, and the corrective actions taken.


(9) Record of the periods when the pressure drop and water flow rate of wet scrubbers used to control process fugitive sources dropped below the levels established in § 60.124(j), and an explanation of the corrective actions taken.


(10) Records of the rationale for the control device monitoring parameter value(s), established as specified in § 60.124(k), monitoring frequency, and averaging time. Include all data and calculations used to develop the value and a description of why the value, monitoring frequency, and averaging time demonstrate continuous compliance with the applicable emission standard.


(d) In addition to the reporting requirements specified in § 60.7 and § 60.19, the owner or operator shall submit the results of the initial and periodic performance tests within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test required by this subpart, following the procedures specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) Data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT website (*https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert*) at the time of the test. Submit the results of the performance test to the EPA via the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI), which can be accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (*https://cdx.epa.gov*). The data shall be submitted in a file format generated using the EPA's ERT. Alternatively, the owner or operator may submit an electronic file consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's ERT website.


(2) Data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the test. The results of the performance test shall be included as an attachment in the ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. Submit the ERT generated package or alternative file to the EPA via CEDRI.


(3) Confidential business information (CBI).


(i) The EPA will make all the information submitted through CEDRI available to the public without further notice to the owner or operator. Do not use CEDRI to submit information that the owner or operator claims as CBI. Although we do not expect persons to assert a claim of CBI, if the owner or operator wishes to assert a CBI claim for some of the information submitted under paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section, the owner or operator shall submit a complete file, including information claimed to be CBI, to the EPA.


(ii) The file shall be generated using the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website.


(iii) Clearly mark the part or all of the information that the owner or operator claims to be CBI. Information not marked as CBI may be authorized for public release without prior notice. Information marked as CBI will not be disclosed except in accordance with procedures set forth in 40 CFR part 2.


(iv) The preferred method to receive CBI is for it to be transmitted electronically using email attachments, File Transfer Protocol, or other online file sharing services. Electronic submissions shall be transmitted directly to the OAQPS CBI Office at the email address *oaqpscbi@epa.gov,* and as described above, should include clear CBI markings and be flagged to the attention of the Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group. If assistance is needed with submitting large electronic files that exceed the file size limit for email attachments, and if the owner or operator does not have a file sharing service, please email *oaqpscbi@epa.gov* to request a file transfer link.


(v) If the owner or operator cannot transmit the file electronically, the owner or operator may send CBI information through the postal service to the following address: OAQPS Document Control Officer (C404-02), OAQPS, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27711, Attention Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group. The mailed CBI material should be double wrapped and clearly marked. Any CBI markings should not show through the outer envelope.


(vi) All CBI claims shall be asserted at the time of submission. Anything submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed CBI. Furthermore, under CAA section 114(c), emissions data is not entitled to confidential treatment, and the EPA is required to make emissions data available to the public. Thus, emissions data will not be protected as CBI and will be made publicly available.


(vii) The owner or operator shall submit the same file submitted to the CBI office with the CBI omitted to the EPA through CEDRI via the EPA's CDX as described in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section.


(e) Claims of EPA system outage. If the owner or operator is required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, the owner or operator may assert a claim of EPA system outage for failure to timely comply with that reporting requirement. To assert a claim of EPA system outage, the owner or operator shall meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (e)(1) through (7) of this section.


(1) The owner or operator shall have been or will be precluded from accessing CEDRI and submitting a required report within the time prescribed due to an outage of either the EPA's CEDRI or CDX systems.


(2) The outage shall have occurred within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date that the submission is due.


(3) The outage may be planned or unplanned.


(4) The owner or operator shall submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date the owner or operator first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.


(5) The owner or operator shall provide to the Administrator a written description identifying:


(i) The date(s) and time(s) when CDX or CEDRI was accessed and the system was unavailable;


(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to EPA system outage;


(iii) A description of measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and


(iv) The date by which the owner or operator proposes to report, or if the owner or operator has already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date the owner or operator reported.


(6) The decision to accept the claim of EPA system outage and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.


(7) In any circumstance, the report shall be submitted electronically as soon as possible after the outage is resolved.


(f) *Claims of force majeure.* If the owner or operator is required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, the owner or operator may assert a claim of *force majeure* for failure to timely comply with that reporting requirement. To assert a claim of *force majeure,* the owner or operator shall meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (f)(1) through (5) of this section.


(1) The owner or operator may submit a claim if a *force majeure* event is about to occur, occurs, or has occurred or there are lingering effects from such an event within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date the submission is due. For the purposes of this section, a *force majeure* event is defined as an event that will be or has been caused by circumstances beyond the control of the affected facility, its contractors, or any entity controlled by the affected facility that prevents the owner or operator from complying with the requirement to submit a report electronically within the time period prescribed. Examples of such events are acts of nature (*e.g.,* hurricanes, earthquakes, or floods), acts of war or terrorism, or equipment failure or safety hazard beyond the control of the affected facility (*e.g.,* large scale power outage).


(2) The owner or operator shall submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date the owner or operator first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.


(3) The owner or operator shall provide to the Administrator:


(i) A written description of the *force majeure* event;


(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the *force majeure* event;


(iii) A description of measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and


(iv) The date by which the owner or operator proposes to report, or if the owner or operator has already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date the owner or operator reported.


(4) The decision to accept the claim of *force majeure* and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.


(5) In any circumstance, the reporting shall occur as soon as possible after the *force majeure* event occurs.







---

[N] [88 FR 80610, Nov. 20, 2023]








