# § 721.10090   Tertiary amine salt of glycol succinate (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as tertiary amine salt of glycol succinate (PMN P-01-595) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(k).


(A) Restricting the manufacture of the PMN substance with only those feedstocks specified in the PMN submission.


(B) Manufacture, import, or processing of the PMN substance without analyzing representative samples of the chemical substance to determine compliance with the requirements in § 721.10090(a)(2)(i)(A). To ensure compliance, the PMN substance must be analyzed (1) at the time of initial commencement of non-exempt commercial manufacture of the chemical substance, and (2) at least annually thereafter during every year in which the substance is manufactured.


(ii) [Reserved]


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.



---

[N] [73 FR 65758, Nov. 5, 2008]




