# ยง 61.171   Definitions.

All terms used in this subpart shall have the meanings given to them in the Act, in subpart A of part 61, and in this section as follows:


*Blowing* means the injection of air or oxygen-enriched air into a molten converter bath.


*Charging* means the addition of a molten or solid material to a copper converter.


*Control device* means the air pollution control equipment used to collect particulate matter emissions.


*Converter arsenic charging rate* means the hourly rate at which arsenic is charged to the copper converters in the copper converter department based on the arsenic content of the copper matte and of any lead matte that is charged to the copper converters.


*Copper converter* means any vessel in which copper matte is charged and is oxidized to copper.


*Copper converter department* means all copper converters at a primary copper smelter.


*Copper matte* means any molten solution of copper and iron sulfides produced by smelting copper sulfide ore concentrates or calcines.


*Holding of a copper converter* means suspending blowing operations while maintaining in a heated state the molten bath in the copper converter.


*Inorganic arsenic* means the oxides and other noncarbon compounds of the element arsenic included in particulate matter, vapors, and aerosols.


*Lead matte* means any molten solution of copper and other metal sulfides produced by reduction of sinter product from the oxidation of lead sulfide ore concentrates.


*Malfunction* means any sudden failure of air pollution control equipment or process equipment or of a process to operate in a normal or usual manner so that emissions of inorganic arsenic are increased.


*Opacity* means the degree to which emissions reduce the transmission of light.


*Particulate matter* means any finely divided solid or liquid material, other than uncombined water, as measured by the specified reference method.


*Pouring* means the removal of blister copper from the copper converter bath.


*Primary copper smelter* means any installation or intermediate process engaged in the production of copper from copper-bearing materials through the use of pyrometallurgical techniques.


*Primary emission control system* means the hoods, ducts, and control devices used to capture, convey, and collect process emissions.


*Process emissions* means inorganic arsenic emissions from copper converters that are captured directly at the source of generation.


*Secondary emissions* means inorganic arsenic emissions that escape capture by a primary emission control system.


*Secondary hood system* means the equipment (including hoods, ducts, fans, and dampers) used to capture and transport secondary inorganic arsenic emissions.


*Shutdown* means the cessation of operation of a stationary source for any reason.


*Skimming* means the removal of slag from the molten converter bath.




