# § 192.229   Limitations on welders and welding operators.

(a) No welder or welding operator whose qualification is based on nondestructive testing may weld compressor station pipe and components.


(b) A welder or welding operator may not weld with a particular welding process unless, within the preceding 6 calendar months, the welder or welding operator was engaged in welding with that process. Alternatively, welders or welding operators may demonstrate they have engaged in a specific welding process if they have performed a weld with that process that was tested and found acceptable under section 6, 9, 12, or Appendix A of API Std 1104 (incorporated by reference, *see* § 192.7) within the preceding 7
1/2 months.


(c) A welder or welding operator qualified under § 192.227(a)—


(1) May not weld on pipe to be operated at a pressure that produces a hoop stress of 20 percent or more of SMYS unless within the preceding 6 calendar months the welder or welding operator has had one weld tested and found acceptable under either section 6, section 9, section 12 or Appendix A of API Std 1104 (incorporated by reference, *see* § 192.7). Alternatively, welders or welding operators may maintain an ongoing qualification status by performing welds tested and found acceptable under the above acceptance criteria at least twice each calendar year, but at intervals not exceeding 7
1/2 months. A welder or welding operator qualified under an earlier edition of a standard listed in § 192.7 of this part may weld, but may not re-qualify under that earlier edition; and,


(2) May not weld on pipe to be operated at a pressure that produces a hoop stress of less than 20 percent of SMYS unless the welder or welding operator is tested in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section or re-qualifies under paragraph (d)(1) or (d)(2) of this section.


(d) A welder or welding operator qualified under § 192.227(b) may not weld unless—


(1) Within the preceding 15 calendar months, but at least once each calendar year, the welder or welding operator has re-qualified under § 192.227(b); or


(2) Within the preceding 7
1/2 calendar months, but at least twice each calendar year, the welder or welding operator has had—


(i) A production weld cut out, tested, and found acceptable in accordance with the qualifying test; or


(ii) For a welder who works only on service lines 2 inches (51 millimeters) or smaller in diameter, the welder has had two sample welds tested and found acceptable in accordance with the test in section III of Appendix C of this part.



---

[N] [Amdt. 192-120, 80 FR 12778, Mar. 11, 2015, as amended at 86 FR 2240, Jan. 11, 2021]




