# ยง 618.860   General fiscal and administrative requirements and cost classification.

(a) *Uniform fiscal and administrative requirements.* (1) Each State receiving funds allocated for the TAA Program from the Department as an agent of the United States, must administer the TAA Program in accordance with the Uniform Guidance at 2 CFR part 200 and 2 CFR part 2900 and with the funding agreement.


(2) A State may expend funds awarded to it during a Federal fiscal year to carry out TAA Program activities under sections 235 through 238 of the Act during that Federal fiscal year and the succeeding 2 Federal fiscal years.


(3) Equipment, as described in 2 CFR 200.33 and computing devices, as described in 2 CFR 200.20, includes equipment acquired with TAA funds under both current and prior Agreements.


(4) The addition method, described at 2 CFR 200.307, must be used for all program income earned under TAA grants. When the cost of generating program income has been charged to such grant, the gross amount earned must be added to such grant. However, when these costs have not been charged to such grant, the cost of generating program income must be subtracted from the amount earned to establish the net amount of program income available for use under such grant.


(b) *Administrative costs.* (1) The administrative cost limit for the fiscal year program funding allocation for training, job search assistance, and relocation allowances is included in the TAA Program Annual Funding Agreement, with which States must comply.


(2) For purposes of the TAA Program, the costs of administration are the costs associated with performing the overall general administrative functions of the TAA Program in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (xviii) of this section and the coordination thereof within the American Job Center network established under WIOA:


(i) Accounting, budgeting, financial and cash management functions;


(ii) Procurement and purchasing functions;


(iii) Property management functions;


(iv) Personnel management functions;


(v) Payroll functions;


(vi) Coordinating the resolution of findings arising from audits, reviews, investigations, and incident reports;


(vii) Audit functions;


(viii) General legal services functions;


(ix) Developing systems and procedures, including information systems, required for these administrative functions;


(x) Processing applications for benefits under the Act;


(xi) Rendering and issuing eligibility determinations under the Act;


(xii) Performing oversight and monitoring responsibilities related to administrative functions;


(xiii) Costs of goods and services required for administrative functions of the program, including goods and services such as rental or purchase of equipment, utilities, office supplies, postage, and rental and maintenance of office space;


(xiv) Travel costs incurred for official business in carrying out administrative activities or the overall management of the TAA Program;


(xv) Costs of information systems related to administrative functions (*i.e.,* personnel, procurement, purchasing, property management, accounting, and payroll systems), including the purchase, systems development, and operating costs of such systems;


(xvi) Processing waivers of training requirements under subpart G of this part;


(xvii) Collecting, validating, and reporting data required under the Act; and


(xviii) Providing RTAA under subpart E of this part.


(3) Awards to subrecipients or contractors that are solely for the performance of administrative functions constitute administrative costs.


(4) Personnel and related nonpersonnel costs of staff that perform both administrative functions specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section and programmatic services or activities must be allocated as administrative or program costs to the benefitting cost objectives/categories based on documented distributions of actual time worked or other equitable cost allocation methods.


(5) Costs of the information systems in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section, including the purchase, systems development, and operational costs, are charged to the program category:


(i) Tracking or monitoring of participant and performance information, including employment and case management services and activities;


(ii) Employment statistics information, including job listing information, job skills information, and demand occupation information. States must leverage existing resources provided under other Federal programs; and


(iii) Maintenance and enhancement of the systems specified in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section.


(6) Wherever possible, States must make efforts to streamline the administrative activities and services listed in this section by minimizing duplication and effectively using information technology to improve services and leveraging resources across programs.


(c) *Prior approval.* (1) Equipment purchases under the TAA Program are subject to the provisions at 2 CFR 200.313. In compliance with 2 CFR 2900.16, prior approval is hereby provided for equipment purchases under the TAA Program.


(2) As provided in 2 CFR 200.439(b)(1), the Department retains the prior approval requirement related to capital expenditures (2 CFR 200.13) and for capital assets (2 CFR 200.12) other than equipment.


(d) *Audit and oversight requirements.* (1) All States, local governments, nonprofit organizations, and for-profit entities that are recipients or subrecipients of TAA Program funds must follow the audit requirements under 2 CFR 200.500 through 200.521 and 2 CFR 2900.20.


(2)(i) *Oversight and monitoring.* Each recipient and subrecipient of funds under the Act must conduct regular oversight and monitoring of its program and those of any subrecipients and contractors, as required under section 239(i) of the Act, as well as under 2 CFR part 200, including 2 CFR 200.328, 200.330, and 200.331, and Department exceptions at 2 CFR part 2900, in order to:


(A) Determine that expenditures have been made against the proper cost categories and within the cost limitations specified in the Act, the regulations in this part, and administrative guidance;


(B) Determine whether there is compliance with other provisions of the Act, the regulations in this part, and administrative guidance;


(C) Assure compliance with 2 CFR part 200 and the Department's exceptions at 2 CFR part 2900; and


(D) Determine compliance with the nondiscrimination, disability, and equal opportunity requirements of section 188 of WIOA, including the Assistive Technology Act of 1998 (29 U.S.C. 3003).


(ii) *Resolution of subrecipient-level findings.* (A) The Governor is responsible for resolving findings that arise from the monitoring reviews, investigations, other Federal monitoring reviews, and audits (including under 2 CFR part 200) of subrecipients awarded funds through the Act.


(B) A State must use the written monitoring and audit resolution, debt collection and appeal procedures that it uses for other Federal grant programs.


(C) If a State does not have such written procedures as described in paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(B) of this section, it must prescribe standards and procedures to govern this grant program.


(D) For subrecipients awarded funds through a recipient of grant funds, the direct recipient of the grant funds must have written monitoring and resolution procedures in place that are consistent with 2 CFR part 200.


(iii) *Resolution of State findings.* (A) The Secretary is responsible for resolving findings that arise from Federal audits, monitoring reviews, investigations, incident reports, and audits under 2 CFR part 200 for direct recipients of Federal awards under the Act.


(B) The Secretary will use the Department's audit resolution process, consistent with 2 CFR part 2900, subpart F.


(C) A final determination issued by a Grant Officer under the process in this paragraph (d)(2)(iii) may be appealed to the DOL Office of Administrative Law Judges under the procedures in 2 CFR 2900.22.


(e) *Government-wide debarment and suspension, and government-wide drug-free workplace requirements.* All TAA Program fund recipients and subrecipients must comply with the Government-wide requirements for debarment and suspension under subparts G and H of 2 CFR part 180 and the Government-wide requirements for a drug-free workplace at 29 CFR part 98.


(f) *Fiscal reporting requirements for States.* (1) In accordance with 2 CFR 200.327 and 2 CFR 2900.14, each State must submit a quarterly financial report to the Department as specified in the reporting instructions approved by OMB.


(2) States must report financial data on an accrual basis, and cumulatively by funding year of appropriation. Financial data may also be required on specific program activities as specified in the reporting instructions as approved by OMB.


(3) If the State's accounting system is not on the accrual basis of accounting, the State must develop accrual information through best estimates based on an analysis of the documentation on hand.


(4) The State must:


(i) Obligate funds on not less than a quarterly basis; and


(ii) Periodically review obligations and, in an appropriate and timely manner, de-obligate funds when a participant drops, completes, or is no longer eligible for training.


(g) *Use of funds.* Of the funds awarded to the States to carry out sections 235 through 238 of the Act for a fiscal year, the State must use:


(1) Not more than 10 percent for the costs of administration, provided in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section; and


(2) Not less than 5 percent for employment and case management services under section 235 of the Act.


(h) *Technology.* States must maintain sufficient and effective technology for the purpose of tracking and reporting required participant data, and to provide appropriate services under the TAA Program.


(i) *Designation of resources for Management Information Systems (MIS) development.* States are required to dedicate an appropriate portion of administrative and employment and case management funding under TAA for management information systems development, upgrades, and ongoing maintenance.




