# § 1007.9   Fees.

(a) *Policy.* (1) Unless waived pursuant to the provisions of § 1007.10, fees for responding to FOIA requests shall be charged in accordance with the provisions of this section and the current schedule of charges determined by the Executive Director and published on the Presidio Trust's website. Such charges shall be set at the level necessary to recoup the full allowable direct costs to the Presidio Trust.


(2) Fees shall not be charged if the total amount chargeable does not exceed the costs of routine collection and processing of the fee. The Presidio Trust shall periodically determine the cost of routine collection and processing of a fee and publish such amount on its website.


(3) Where there is a reasonable basis to conclude that a requester or group of requesters acting in concert has divided a request into a series of requests on a single subject or related subjects to avoid assessment of fees, the requests may be aggregated and fees charged accordingly.


(4) Fees shall be charged to recover the full costs of providing such services as certifying that records are true copies or sending records by a method other than regular mail, when the Presidio Trust elects to provide such services.


(5) The following definitions shall apply to this part:


(i) A *commercial use request* is a request from or on behalf of a person who seeks information for a use or purpose that furthers the commercial, trade or profit interests of the requester or the person on whose behalf the request is made, which can include furthering those interest through litigation. The intended use of records may be determined on the basis of information submitted by a requester and from reasonable inferences based on the identity of the requester and any other available information.


(ii) The term *direct costs* refers to those expenses the Presidio Trust incurs in searching for and duplicating (and, in the case of commercial use requests, reviewing) records in order to respond to a FOIA request. For example, direct costs include the salary of the employee performing the work (*i.e.,* the basic rate of pay for the employee, plus 16 percent of that rate to cover benefits) and the cost of operating computers and other electronic equipment, such as photocopiers and scanners. Direct costs do not include overhead expenses such as the costs of space, and of heating or lighting a facility.


(iii) The term *duplication* refers to the process of making a copy of a record necessary to respond to a FOIA request. Such copies can take the form of paper copy, microform, audio-visual materials, or machine-readable documentation (*e.g.,* magnetic tape or disk), among others. The copy provided shall be in a form that is reasonably usable by requesters.


(iv) An *educational institution* is a preschool, a public or private elementary or secondary school, an institution of graduate higher education, an institution of undergraduate higher education, an institution of professional education, or an institution of vocational education, which operates a program or programs of scholarly research.


(v) A *noncommercial scientific institution* is an institution that is not operated for commerce, trade or profit and that is operated solely for the purpose of conducting scientific research the results of which are not intended to promote any particular product or industry.


(vi) A *representative of the news media* is any person or entity that gathers information of potential interest to a segment of the public, uses its editorial skills to turn the raw materials into a distinct work, and distributes that work to an audience. The term “news” means information that is about current events or that would be of current interest to the public. Non-exhaustive examples of news media entities include television or radio stations that broadcast “news” to the public at large and publishers of periodicals that disseminate “news” and make their products available through a variety of means to the general public, including news organizations that disseminate solely on the internet. A request for records supporting the news-dissemination function of the requester will not be considered to be for a commercial use. “Freelance” journalists who demonstrate a solid basis for expecting publication through a news media entity will be considered as a representative of the news media. A publishing contract would provide the clearest evidence that publication is expected; however, the Presidio Trust can also consider a requester's past publication record in making this determination. The Presidio Trust will advise requesters of their placement in this category.


(vii) The term *review* refers to the examination of a record located in response to a request in order to determine whether any portion of it is exempt from disclosure. Review time includes processing any record for disclosure, such as doing all that is necessary to prepare the record for disclosure, including the process of redacting the record and marking the appropriate exemptions. Review costs are properly charged even if a record ultimately is not disclosed. Review time also includes time spent both obtaining and considering any formal objection to disclosure under § 1007.4(c) made by a submitter of confidential commercial information, but it does not include time spent resolving general legal or policy issues regarding the application of exemptions.


(viii) The term *search* includes all time spent looking for material that is responsive to a request, including page-by-page or line-by-line identification of material within documents, databases and information in other electronic records. Searches shall be undertaken in the most efficient and least expensive manner possible, consistent with the Presidio Trust's obligations under the FOIA and other applicable laws.


(b) *Commercial use requests.* (1) A requester seeking records for commercial use shall be charged fees for direct costs incurred in document search and review (even if the search and review fails to locate records that are not exempt from disclosure) and duplication.


(2) A commercial use requester may not be charged fees for time spent resolving legal and policy issues affecting access to requested records.


(c) *Educational and noncommercial scientific institution requests.* (1) A requester seeking records under the auspices of an educational institution in furtherance of scholarly research or a noncommercial scientific institution in furtherance of scientific research shall be charged for document duplication, except that the first 100 pages of paper copies (or the equivalent cost thereof if the records are in some other form) shall be provided without charge.


(2) Such requesters may not be charged fees for costs incurred in:


(i) Searching for requested records;


(ii) Examining requested records to determine whether they are exempt from mandatory disclosure;


(iii) Deleting reasonably segregable exempt matter;


(iv) Monitoring the requester's inspection of agency records; or


(v) Resolving legal and policy issues affecting access to requested records.


(d) *News media requests.* (1) A representative of the news media shall be charged for document duplication, except that the first 100 pages of paper copies (or the equivalent cost thereof if the records are in some other form) shall be provided without charge.


(2) Representatives of the news media may not be charged fees for costs incurred in:


(i) Searching for requested records;


(ii) Examining requested records to determine whether they are exempt from mandatory disclosure;


(iii) Deleting reasonably segregable exempt matter;


(iv) Monitoring the requester's inspection of agency records; or


(v) Resolving legal and policy issues affecting access to requested records.


(e) *Other requests.* (1) A requester not covered by paragraphs (b), (c), or (d) of this section shall be charged fees for the direct costs for document search (even if the search fails to locate records that are not exempt from disclosure) and duplication, except that the first two hours of search time and the first 100 pages of paper copies (or the equivalent cost thereof if the records are in some other form) shall be provided without charge.


(2) Such requesters may not be charged for costs incurred in:


(i) Examining requested records to determine whether they are exempt from disclosure;


(ii) Deleting reasonably segregable exempt matter;


(iii) Monitoring the requester's inspection of agency records; or


(iv) Resolving legal and policy issues affecting access to requested records.


(f) *Requests for clarification.* Where a request does not provide sufficient information to determine whether it is covered by paragraph (b), (c), (d), or (e) of this section, the requester should be asked to provide additional clarification. If it is necessary to seek such clarification, the request may be deemed to have not been received for purposes of the time limits established in § 1007.6 until the clarification is received. Requests to requesters for clarification shall be made promptly.


(g) *Notice of anticipated fees.* Where a request does not state a willingness to pay fees as high as anticipated by the Presidio Trust, and the requester has not sought and been granted a full waiver of fees under § 1007.10, the request may be deemed to have not been received for purposes of the time limits established in § 1007.6 until the requester has been notified of and agrees to pay the anticipated fee. Advice to requesters with respect to anticipated fees shall be provided promptly.


(h) *Advance payment.* (1) Where it is anticipated that allowable fees are likely to exceed $250.00, the requester may be required to make an advance payment of the entire fee before processing of his or her request.


(2) Where a requester has previously failed to pay a fee within 30 days of the date of billing, processing of any request from that requester shall ordinarily be suspended until the requester pays any amount still owed, including applicable interest, and makes advance payment of allowable fees anticipated in connection with the request.


(3) Advance payment of fees may not be required except as described in paragraphs (h) (1) and (2) of this section.


(4) Issuance of a notice requiring payment of overdue fees or advance payment shall toll the time limit in § 1007.6 until receipt of payment.


(i) *Form of payment.* Payment of fees should be made by check or money order payable to the Presidio Trust. Where appropriate, the official responsible for handling a request may require that payment by check be made in the form of a certified check.


(j) *Billing procedures.* A bill for collection shall be prepared for each request that requires collection of fees.


(k) *Collection of fees.* The bill for collection or an accompanying letter to the requester shall include a statement that interest will be charged in accordance with the Debt Collection Act of 1982, 31 U.S.C. 3717, and implementing regulations, 4 CFR 102.13, if the fees are not paid within 30 days of the date of the bill for collection is mailed or hand-delivered to the requester. This requirement does not apply if the requester is a unit of State or local government. Other authorities of the Debt Collection Act of 1982 shall be used, as appropriate, to collect the fees.



---

[N] [83 FR 50833, Oct. 10, 2018]










