# § 1.142(a)(5)-1   Exempt facility bonds: Sewage facilities.

(a) *In general.* Under section 103(a), a private activity bond is a tax-exempt bond only if it is a qualified bond. A qualified bond includes an exempt facility bond, defined as any bond issued as part of an issue 95 percent or more of the net proceeds of which are used to provide a facility specified in section 142. One type of facility specified in section 142(a) is a sewage facility. This section defines the term *sewage facility* for purposes of section 142(a).


(b) *Definitions*—(1) *Sewage facility defined.* A sewage facility is property—


(i) Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(2) and (d) of this section, used for the secondary treatment of wastewater; however, for property treating wastewater reasonably expected to have an average daily raw wasteload concentration of biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) that exceeds 350 milligrams per liter as oxygen (measured at the time the influent enters the facility) (the *BOD limit*), this paragraph (b)(1)(i) applies only to the extent the treatment is for wastewater having an average daily raw wasteload concentration of BOD that does not exceed the BOD limit;


(ii) Used for the preliminary and/or primary treatment of wastewater but only to the extent used in connection with secondary treatment (without regard to the BOD limit described in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section);


(iii) Used for the advanced or tertiary treatment of wastewater but only to the extent used in connection with and after secondary treatment;


(iv) Used for the collection, storage, use, processing, or final disposal of—


(A) Wastewater, which property is necessary for such preliminary, primary, secondary, advanced, or tertiary treatment; or


(B) Sewage sludge removed during such preliminary, primary, secondary, advanced, or tertiary treatment (without regard to the BOD limit described in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section);


(v) Used for the treatment, collection, storage, use, processing, or final disposal of septage (without regard to the BOD limit described in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section); and


(vi) Functionally related and subordinate to property described in this paragraph (b)(1), such as sewage disinfection property.


(2) *Special rules and exceptions*—(i) *Exception to BOD limit.* A facility treating wastewater with an average daily raw wasteload concentration of BOD exceeding the BOD limit will not fail to qualify as a sewage facility described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section to the extent that the failure to satisfy the BOD limit results from the implementation of a federal, state, or local water conservation program (for example, a program designed to promote water use efficiency that results in BOD concentrations beyond the BOD limit).


(ii) *Anti-abuse rule for BOD limit.* A facility does not satisfy the BOD limit if there is any intentional manipulation of the BOD level to circumvent the BOD limit (for example, increasing the volume of water in the wastewater before the influent enters the facility with the intention of reducing the BOD level).


(iii) *Authority of Commissioner.* In appropriate cases upon application to the Commissioner, the Commissioner may determine that facilities employing technologically advanced or innovative treatment processes qualify as sewage facilities if it is demonstrated that these facilities perform functions that are consistent with the definition of sewage facilities described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(3) *Other applicable definitions*—(i) *Advanced or tertiary treatment* means the treatment of wastewater after secondary treatment. Advanced or tertiary treatment ranges from biological treatment extensions to physical-chemical separation techniques such as denitrification, ammonia stripping, carbon adsorption, and chemical precipitation.


(ii) *Nonconventional pollutants* are any pollutants that are not listed in 40 CFR 401.15, 401.16, or appendix A to part 423.


(iii) *Preliminary treatment* means treatment that removes large extraneous matter from incoming wastewater and renders the incoming wastewater more amenable to subsequent treatment and handling.


(iv) *Pretreatment* means a process that preconditions wastewater to neutralize or remove toxic, priority, or nonconventional pollutants that could adversely affect sewers or inhibit a preliminary, primary, secondary, advanced, or tertiary treatment operation.


(v) *Primary treatment* means treatment that removes material that floats or will settle, usually by screens or settling tanks.


(vi) *Priority pollutants* are those pollutants listed in appendix A to 40 CFR part 423.


(vii) *Secondary treatment* means the stage in sewage treatment in which a bacterial process (or an equivalent process) consumes the organic parts of wastes, usually by trickling filters or an activated sludge process.


(viii) *Sewage sludge* is defined in 40 CFR 122.2 and includes septage.


(ix) *Toxic pollutants* are those pollutants listed in 40 CFR 401.15.


(c) *Other property not included in the definition of a sewage facility.* Property other than property described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section is not a sewage facility. Thus, for example, property is not a sewage facility, or functionally related and subordinate property, if the property is used for pretreatment of wastewater (whether or not this treatment is necessary to perform preliminary, primary, secondary, advanced, or tertiary treatment), or the related collection, storage, use, processing, or final disposal of the wastewater. In addition, property used to treat, process, or use wastewater subsequent to the time the wastewater can be discharged into navigable waters, as defined in 33 U.S.C. 1362, is not a sewage facility.


(d) *Allocation of costs.* In the case of property that has both a use described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section (a sewage treatment function) and a use other than sewage treatment, only the portion of the cost of the property allocable to the sewage treatment function is taken into account as an expenditure to provide sewage facilities. The portion of the cost of property allocable to the sewage treatment function is determined by allocating the cost of that property between the property's sewage treatment function and any other uses by any method which, based on all the facts and circumstances, reasonably reflects a separation of costs for each use of the property.


(e) *Effective date*—(1) *In general.* This section applies to issues of bonds issued after February 21, 1995.


(2) *Refundings.* In the case of a refunding bond issued to refund a bond to which this section does not apply, the issuer need not apply this section to that refunding bond. This paragraph (e)(2) applies only if the weighted average maturity of the refunding bonds, as described in section 147(b), is not greater than the remaining weighted average maturity of the refunded bonds.



---

[N] [T.D. 8576, 59 FR 66163, Dec. 23, 1994, as amended by T.D. 9546, Aug. 19, 2011]




