# § 63.10000   What are my general requirements for complying with this subpart?

(a) You must be in compliance with the emission limits and operating limits in this subpart. These limits apply to you at all times except during periods of startup and shutdown; however, for coal-fired, liquid oil-fired, or solid oil-derived fuel-fired EGUs, you are required to meet the work practice requirements, items 3 and 4, in Table 3 to this subpart during periods of startup or shutdown.


(b) At all times you must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. Determination of whether such operation and maintenance procedures are being used will be based on information available to the EPA Administrator which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.


(c)(1) For coal-fired units, IGCC units, and solid oil-derived fuel-fired units, initial performance testing is required for all pollutants, to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limits.




(i) For a coal-fired or solid oil-derived fuel-fired EGU or IGCC EGU, you may conduct initial performance testing in accordance with § 63.10005(h), to determine whether the EGU qualifies as a low emitting EGU (LEE) for one or more applicable emission limits, except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (c)(1)(i)(A) through (C) of this section:




(A) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(D) of this section, you may not pursue the LEE option if your coal-fired, IGCC, or solid oil-derived fuel-fired EGU is equipped with a main stack and a bypass stack or bypass duct configuration that allows the effluent to bypass any pollutant control device.




(B) You may not pursue the LEE option for Hg if your coal-fired, solid oil-derived fuel-fired EGU or IGCC EGU is new.


(C) On or after July 6, 2027, you may not pursue the LEE option for filterable PM, total non-Hg HAP metals, or individual non-Hg HAP metals for coal-fired and solid oil-derived fuel-fired EGUs.




(D) You may pursue the LEE option provided that:


(*1*) Your EGU's control device bypass emissions are measured in the bypass stack or duct or your control device bypass exhaust is routed through the EGU main stack so that emissions are measured during the bypass event; or


(*2*) Except for hours during which only clean fuel is combusted, you bypass your EGU control device only during emergency periods for no more than a total of 2 percent of your EGU's annual operating hours; you use clean fuels to the maximum extent possible during an emergency period; and you prepare and submit a report describing the emergency event, its cause, corrective action taken, and estimates of emissions released during the emergency event. You must include these emergency emissions along with performance test results in assessing whether your EGU maintains LEE status.


(ii) For a qualifying LEE for Hg emissions limits, you must conduct a 30-day performance test using Method 30B at least once every 12 calendar months to demonstrate continued LEE status.


(iii) For a qualifying LEE of any other applicable emissions limits, you must conduct a performance test at least once every 36 calendar months to demonstrate continued LEE status.


(iv)(A) Before July 6, 2027, if your coal-fired or solid oil derived fuel-fired EGU does not qualify as a LEE for total non-mercury HAP metals, individual non-mercury HAP metals, or filterable particulate matter (PM), you must demonstrate compliance through an initial performance test and you must monitor continuous performance through either use of a particulate matter continuous parametric monitoring system (PM CPMS), a PM CEMS, or, for an existing EGU, compliance performance testing repeated quarterly.




(B) On and after July 6, 2027, you may not pursue or continue to use the LEE option for your coal-fired or solid oil derived fuel-fired EGU for filterable PM or for non-mercury HAP metals. You must demonstrate compliance through an initial performance test, and you must monitor continuous performance with the applicable filterable PM emissions limit through the use of a PM CEMS or HAP metals CMS.


(C) If your IGCC EGU does not qualify as a LEE for total non-mercury HAP metals, individual non-mercury HAP metals, or filterable PM, you must demonstrate compliance through an initial performance test and you must monitor continuous performance through either use of a PM CPMS, a PM CEMS, or, for an existing EGU, compliance performance testing repeated quarterly.




(v) If your coal-fired or solid oil-derived fuel-fired EGU does not qualify as a LEE for hydrogen chloride (HCl), you may demonstrate initial and continuous compliance through use of an HCl CEMS, installed and operated in accordance with Appendix B to this subpart. As an alternative to HCl CEMS, you may demonstrate initial and continuous compliance by conducting an initial and periodic quarterly performance stack test for HCl. If your EGU uses wet or dry flue gas desulfurization technology (this includes limestone injection into a fluidized bed combustion unit), you may apply a second alternative to HCl CEMS by installing and operating a sulfur dioxide (SO_2_) CEMS installed and operated in accordance with part 75 of this chapter to demonstrate compliance with the applicable SO_2_ emissions limit.


(vi) If your coal-fired or solid oil-derived fuel-fired EGU does not qualify as a LEE for Hg, you must demonstrate initial and continuous compliance through use of a Hg CEMS or a sorbent trap monitoring system, in accordance with appendix A to this subpart.


(A) You may choose to use separate sorbent trap monitoring systems to comply with this subpart: One sorbent trap monitoring system to demonstrate compliance with the numeric mercury emissions limit during periods other than startup or shutdown and the other sorbent trap monitoring system to report average mercury concentration during startup periods or shutdown periods.


(B) You may choose to use one sorbent trap monitoring system to demonstrate compliance with the mercury emissions limit at all times (including startup periods and shutdown periods) and to report average mercury concentration. You must follow the startup or shutdown requirements that follow and as given in Table 3 to this subpart for each coal-fired, liquid oil-fired, or solid oil-derived fuel-fired EGU.


(2) For liquid oil-fired EGUs, except limited use liquid oil-fired EGUs, initial performance testing is required for all pollutants, to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limits.


(i) For an existing liquid oil-fired unit, you may conduct the performance testing in accordance with § 63.10005(h), to determine whether the unit qualifies as a LEE for one or more pollutants. For a qualifying LEE for Hg emissions limits, you must conduct a 30-day performance test using Method 30B at least once every 12 calendar months to demonstrate continued LEE status. For a qualifying LEE of any other applicable emissions limits, you must conduct a performance test at least once every 36 calendar months to demonstrate continued LEE status. On or after July 6, 2027, you may not pursue the LEE option for filterable PM, total non-Hg HAP metals, or individual non-Hg HAP metals.




(ii) Before July 6, 2027, if your liquid oil-fired unit does not qualify as a LEE for total HAP metals (including mercury), individual metals (including mercury), or filterable PM you must demonstrate compliance through an initial performance test and you must monitor continuous performance through either use of a PM CPMS, a PM CEMS, or, for an existing EGU, performance testing conducted quarterly. On and after July 6, 2027, you may not pursue or continue to use the LEE option for your liquid oil-fired EGU for filterable PM or for non-mercury HAP metals. You must demonstrate compliance through an initial performance test, and you must monitor continuous performance with the applicable filterable PM emissions limit through the use of a PM CEMS or HAP metals CMS.




(iii) If your existing liquid oil-fired unit does not qualify as a LEE for hydrogen chloride (HCl) or for hydrogen fluoride (HF), you may demonstrate initial and continuous compliance through use of an HCl CEMS, an HF CEMS, or an HCl and HF CEMS, installed and operated in accordance with Appendix B to this rule. As an alternative to HCl CEMS, HF CEMS, or HCl and HF CEMS, you may demonstrate initial and continuous compliance through quarterly performance testing and parametric monitoring for HCl and HF. If you choose to use quarterly testing and parametric monitoring, then you must also develop a site-specific monitoring plan that identifies the CMS you will use to ensure that the operations of the EGU remains consistent with those during the performance test. As another alternative, you may measure or obtain, and keep records of, fuel moisture content; as long as fuel moisture does not exceed 1.0 percent by weight, you need not conduct other HCl or HF monitoring or testing.


(iv) If your unit qualifies as a limited-use liquid oil-fired as defined in § 63.10042, then you are not subject to the emission limits in Tables 1 and 2, but you must comply with the performance tune-up work practice requirements in Table 3.


(d)(1) If you demonstrate compliance with any applicable emissions limit through use of a continuous monitoring system (CMS), where a CMS includes a continuous parameter monitoring system (CPMS) as well as a continuous emissions monitoring system (CEMS), you must develop a site-specific monitoring plan and submit this site-specific monitoring plan, if requested, at least 60 days before your initial performance evaluation (where applicable) of your CMS. This requirement also applies to you if you petition the Administrator for alternative monitoring parameters under § 63.8(f). This requirement to develop and submit a site-specific monitoring plan does not apply to affected sources with existing monitoring plans that apply to CEMS and CPMS prepared under appendix B to part 60 or part 75 of this chapter, and that meet the requirements of § 63.10010. Using the process described in § 63.8(f)(4), you may request approval of monitoring system quality assurance and quality control procedures alternative to those specified in this paragraph of this section and, if approved, include those in your site-specific monitoring plan. The monitoring plan must address the provisions in paragraphs (d)(2) through (5) of this section.


(2) The site-specific monitoring plan shall include the information specified in paragraphs (d)(5)(i) through (d)(5)(vii) of this section. Alternatively, the requirements of paragraphs (d)(5)(i) through (d)(5)(vii) are considered to be met for a particular CMS or sorbent trap monitoring system if:


(i) The CMS or sorbent trap monitoring system is installed, certified, maintained, operated, and quality-assured either according to part 75 of this chapter, or appendix A or B to this subpart; and


(ii) The recordkeeping and reporting requirements of part 75 of this chapter, or appendix A or B to this subpart, that pertain to the CMS are met.


(3) If requested by the Administrator, you must submit the monitoring plan (or relevant portion of the plan) at least 60 days before the initial performance evaluation of a particular CMS, except where the CMS has already undergone a performance evaluation that meets the requirements of § 63.10010 (e.g., if the CMS was previously certified under another program).


(4) You must operate and maintain the CMS according to the site-specific monitoring plan.


(5) The provisions of the site-specific monitoring plan must address the following items:


(i) Installation of the CMS or sorbent trap monitoring system sampling probe or other interface at a measurement location relative to each affected process unit such that the measurement is representative of control of the exhaust emissions (*e.g.,* on or downstream of the last control device). See § 63.10010(a) for further details. For PM CPMS installations (which with the exception of IGCC units, are only applicable before July 6, 2027), follow the procedures in § 63.10010(h).




(ii) Performance and equipment specifications for the sample interface, the pollutant concentration or parametric signal analyzer, and the data collection and reduction systems.


(iii) Schedule for conducting initial and periodic performance evaluations.


(iv) Performance evaluation procedures and acceptance criteria (e.g., calibrations), including the quality control program in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.8(d).


(v) On-going operation and maintenance procedures, in accordance with the general requirements of §§ 63.8(c)(1)(ii), (c)(3), and (c)(4)(ii).


(vi) Conditions that define a CMS that is out of control consistent with § 63.8(c)(7)(i) where appropriate, and for responding to out of control periods consistent with §§ 63.8(c)(7)(ii) and (c)(8).


(vii) On-going recordkeeping and reporting procedures, in accordance with the general requirements of §§ 63.10(c), (e)(1), and (e)(2)(i), or as specifically required under this subpart.


(e) As part of your demonstration of continuous compliance, you must perform periodic tune-ups of your EGU(s), according to § 63.10021(e).


(f) Except as provided under paragraph (n) of this section, you are subject to the requirements of this subpart for at least 6 months following the last date you met the definition of an EGU subject to this subpart (*e.g.,* 6 months after a cogeneration unit provided more than one third of its potential electrical output capacity and more than 25 megawatts electrical output to any power distributions system for sale). You may opt to remain subject to the provisions of this subpart beyond 6 months after the last date you met the definition of an EGU subject to this subpart, unless your unit is a solid waste incineration unit subject to standards under CAA section 129 (*e.g.,* 40 CFR part 60, subpart CCCC (New Source Performance Standards (NSPS) for Commercial and Industrial Solid Waste Incineration Units, or subpart DDDD (Emissions Guidelines (EG) for Existing Commercial and Industrial Solid Waste Incineration Units). Notwithstanding the provisions of this subpart, an EGU that starts combusting solid waste is immediately subject to standards under CAA section 129 and the EGU remains subject to those standards until the EGU no longer meets the definition of a solid waste incineration unit consistent with the provisions of the applicable CAA section 129 standards.


(g) Except as provided under paragraph (n) of this section, if your unit no longer meets the definition of an EGU subject to this subpart you must be in compliance with any newly applicable standards on the date you are no longer subject to this subpart. The date you are no longer subject to this subpart is a date selected by you, that must be at least 6 months from the date that your unit last met the definition of an EGU subject to this subpart or the date you begin combusting solid waste, consistent with § 63.9983(d). Your source must remain in compliance with this subpart until the date you select to cease complying with this subpart or the date you begin combusting solid waste, whichever is earlier.


(h)(1) If you own or operate an EGU that does not meet the definition of an EGU subject to this subpart on April 16, 2015, and you commence or recommence operations that cause you to meet the definition of an EGU subject to this subpart, you are subject to the provisions of this subpart, including, but not limited to, the emission limitations and the monitoring requirements, as of the first day you meet the definition of an EGU subject to this subpart. You must complete all initial compliance demonstrations for this subpart applicable to your EGU within 180 days after you commence or recommence operations that cause you to meet the definition of an EGU subject to this subpart.


(2) You must provide 30 days prior notice of the date you intend to commence or recommence operations that cause you to meet the definition of an EGU subject to this subpart. The notification must identify:


(i) The name of the owner or operator of the EGU, the location of the facility, the unit(s) that will commence or recommence operations that will cause the unit(s) to meet the definition of an EGU subject to this subpart, and the date of the notice;


(ii) The 40 CFR part 60, part 62, or part 63 subpart and subcategory currently applicable to your unit(s), and the subcategory of this subpart that will be applicable after you commence or recommence operation that will cause the unit(s) to meet the definition of an EGU subject to this subpart;


(iii) The date on which you became subject to the currently applicable emission limits;


(iv) The date upon which you will commence or recommence operations that will cause your unit to meet the definition of an EGU subject to this subpart, consistent with paragraph (f) of this section.


(i)(1) If you own or operate an EGU subject to this subpart and cease to operate in a manner that causes your unit to meet the definition of an EGU subject to this subpart, you must be in compliance with any newly applicable section 112 or 129 standards on the date you selected consistent with paragraphs (g) and (n) of this section.


(2) You must provide 30 days prior notice of the date your EGU will cease complying with this subpart. The notification must identify:


(i) The name of the owner or operator of the EGU(s), the location of the facility, the EGU(s) that will cease complying with this subpart, and the date of the notice;


(ii) The currently applicable subcategory under this subpart, and any 40 CFR part 60, part 62, or part 63 subpart and subcategory that will be applicable after you cease complying with this subpart;


(iii) The date on which you became subject to this subpart;


(iv) The date upon which you will cease complying with this subpart, consistent with paragraph (g) of this section.


(j) All air pollution control equipment necessary for compliance with any newly applicable emissions limits which apply as a result of the cessation or commencement or recommencement of operations that cause your EGU to meet the definition of an EGU subject to this subpart must be installed and operational as of the date your source ceases to be or becomes subject to this subpart.


(k) All monitoring systems necessary for compliance with any newly applicable monitoring requirements which apply as a result of the cessation or commencement or recommencement of operations that cause your EGU to meet the definition of an EGU subject to this subpart must be installed and operational as of the date your source ceases to be or becomes subject to this subpart. All calibration and drift checks must be performed as of the date your source ceases to be or becomes subject to this subpart. You must also comply with provisions of §§ 63.10010, 63.10020, and 63.10021 of this subpart. Relative accuracy tests must be performed as of the performance test deadline for PM CEMS, if applicable. Relative accuracy testing for other CEMS need not be repeated if that testing was previously performed consistent with CAA section 112 monitoring requirements or monitoring requirements under this subpart.


(l) On or before the date an EGU is subject to this subpart, you must install, certify, operate, maintain, and quality assure each monitoring system necessary for demonstrating compliance with the work practice standards for PM or non-mercury HAP metals during startup periods and shutdown periods. You must collect, record, report, and maintain data obtained from these monitoring systems during startup periods and shutdown periods.




(m) Should you choose to rely on paragraph (2) of the definition of “startup” in § 63.10042 for your EGU (only allowed before January 2, 2025), on or before the date your EGU is subject to this subpart, you must install, verify, operate, maintain, and quality assure each monitoring system necessary for demonstrating compliance with the work practice standards for PM or non-mercury HAP metals controls during startup periods and shutdown periods required to comply with § 63.10020(e). On and after January 2, 2025 you will no longer be able to choose paragraph (2) of the “startup” definition in § 63.10042.




(1) You may rely on monitoring system specifications or instructions or manufacturer's specifications when installing, verifying, operating, maintaining, and quality assuring each monitoring system.


(2) You must collect, record, report, and maintain data obtained from these monitoring systems during startup periods and shutdown periods.


(n) If you have permanently converted your EGU from coal or oil to natural gas or biomass after your compliance date (or, if applicable, after your approved extended compliance date), as demonstrated by being subject to a permit provision or physical limitation (including retirement) that prevents you from operating in a manner that would subject you to this subpart, you are no longer subject to this subpart, notwithstanding the coal or oil usage in the previous calendar years. The date on which you are no longer subject to this subpart is the date on which you converted to natural gas or biomass firing; it is also the date on which you must be in compliance with any newly applicable standards.



---

[N] [77 FR 9464, Feb. 16, 2012, as amended at 77 FR 23402, Apr. 19, 2012; 78 FR 24084, Apr. 24, 2013; 79 FR 68788, Nov. 19, 2014; 81 FR 20180, Apr. 6, 2016; 85 FR 55757, Sept. 9, 2020; 89 FR 38564, May 7, 2024]




