# ยง 422.2605   Request for reconsideration.

(a) *Time for filing a request.* The request for reconsideration must be filed with the designated independent reviewer within 60 calendar days from the date of the demand letter received by the MA organization.


(b) *Content of request.* (1) The request for reconsideration must be in writing and specify the findings or issues with which the MA organization disagrees.


(2) The MA organization must include with its request all supporting documentary evidence it wishes the independent reviewer to consider.


(i) This material must be submitted in the format requested by CMS.


(ii) Documentation, evidence, or substantiation submitted after the filing of the reconsideration request will not be considered.


(c) *CMS rebuttal.* CMS may file a rebuttal to the MA organization's reconsideration request.


(1) The rebuttal must be submitted within 30 calendar days of the review entity's notification to CMS that it has received the MA organization's reconsideration request.


(2) CMS sends its rebuttal to the MA organization at the same time it is submitted to the independent reviewer.


(d) *Review entity.* An independent reviewer conducts the reconsideration. The independent reviewer reviews the demand for repayment, the evidence and findings upon which it was based and any supporting documentation that the MA organization or CMS submitted in accordance with this section.


(e) *Notification of decision.* The independent reviewer informs the CMS and the MA organization of its decision in writing.


(f) *Effect of decision.* A reconsideration decision is final and binding unless the MA organization requests a hearing official review in accordance with ยง 422.2610.


(g) *Right to hearing official review.* An MA organization that is dissatisfied with the independent reviewer's reconsideration decision is entitled to a hearing official review as provided in ยง 422.2610.




