# § 63.1253   Standards: Storage tanks.

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (d), (e), and (f) of this section, the owner or operator of a storage tank meeting the criteria of paragraph (a)(1) of this section is subject to the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section. Except as provided in paragraphs (d), (e), and (f) of this section, the owner or operator of a storage tank meeting the criteria of paragraph (a)(2) of this section is subject to the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section. Compliance with the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section is demonstrated using the initial compliance procedures in § 63.1257(c) and the monitoring requirements in § 63.1258. 


(1) A storage tank with a design capacity greater than or equal to 38 m
3 but less than 75 m
3 storing a liquid for which the maximum true vapor pressure of total HAP is greater than or equal to 13.1 kPa. 


(2) A storage tank with a design capacity greater than or equal to 75 m
3 storing a liquid for which the maximum true vapor pressure of total HAP is greater than or equal to 13.1 kPa. 


(b) The owner or operator of a storage tank shall equip the affected storage tank with either a fixed roof with internal floating roof, an external floating roof, an external floating roof converted to an internal floating roof, or a closed-vent system meeting the conditions of § 63.1252(b) with a control device that meets any of the following conditions:


(1) Reduces inlet emissions of total HAP by 90 percent by weight or greater;


(2) Reduces emissions to outlet concentrations less than or equal to 20 ppmv as TOC and less than or equal to 20 ppmv as hydrogen halides and halogens;


(3) Is an enclosed combustion device that provides a minimum residence time of 0.5 seconds at a minimum temperature of 760 °C;


(4) Is a flare that meets the requirements of § 63.11(b); or


(5) Is a control device specified in § 63.1257(a)(4).


(c) The owner or operator of a storage tank shall equip the affected storage tank with either a fixed roof with internal floating roof, an external floating roof, an external floating roof converted to an internal floating roof, or a closed-vent system meeting the conditions of § 63.1252(b) with a control device that meets any of the following conditions:


(1) Reduces inlet emissions of total HAP as specified in paragraph (c)(1) (i) or (ii) of this section:


(i) By 95 percent by weight or greater; or (ii) If the owner or operator can demonstrate that a control device installed on a storage tank on or before April 2, 1997 is designed to reduce inlet emissions of total HAP by greater than or equal to 90 percent by weight but less than 95 percent by weight, then the control device is required to be operated to reduce inlet emissions of total HAP by 90 percent or greater.


(2) Reduces emissions to outlet concentrations less than or equal to 20 ppmv as TOC and less than or equal to 20 ppmv as hydrogen halides and halogens;


(3) Is an enclosed combustion device that provides a minimum residence time of 0.5 seconds at a minimum temperature of 760 °C;


(4) Is a flare that meets the requirements of § 63.11(b); or


(5) Is a control device specified in § 63.1257(a)(4).


(d) As an alternative standard, the owner or operator of an existing or new affected source may comply with the storage tank standards by routing storage tank vents to a combustion control device achieving an outlet TOC concentration, as calibrated on methane or the predominant HAP, of 20 ppmv or less, and an outlet concentration of hydrogen halides and halogens of 20 ppmv or less. If the owner or operator is routing emissions to a noncombustion control device, it must achieve an outlet TOC concentration, as calibrated on methane or the predominant HAP, of 50 ppmv or less, and an outlet concentration of hydrogen halides and halogens of 50 ppmv or less. Compliance with the outlet concentrations shall be determined by the initial compliance procedures of § 63.1257(c)(4) and the continuous emission monitoring requirements of § 63.1258(b)(5). 


(e) *Planned routine maintenance.* The specifications and requirements in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section for control devices do not apply during periods of planned routine maintenance. Periods of planned routine maintenance of the control devices (including CCCD subject to § 63.1252(h)), during which the control device does not meet the specifications of paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, as applicable, shall not exceed 240 hours in any 365-day period. The owner or operator may submit an application to the Administrator requesting an extension of this time limit to a total of 360 hours in any 365-day period. The application must explain why the extension is needed, it must specify that no material will be added to the storage tank between the time the 240-hour limit is exceeded and the control device is again operational, and it must be submitted at least 60 days before the 240-hour limit will be exceeded.


(f) *Vapor balancing alternative.* As an alternative to the requirements in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the owner or operator of an existing or new affected source may implement vapor balancing in accordance with paragraphs (f)(1) through (7) of this section. 


(1) The vapor balancing system must be designed and operated to route organic HAP vapors displaced from loading of the storage tank to the railcar or tank truck from which the storage tank is filled. 


(2) Tank trucks and railcars must have a current certification in accordance with the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) pressure test requirements of 49 CFR part 180 for tank trucks and 49 CFR 173.31 for railcars. 


(3) Hazardous air pollutants must only be unloaded from tank trucks or railcars when vapor collection systems are connected to the storage tank's vapor collection system. 


(4) No pressure relief device on the storage tank, or on the railcar, or tank truck shall open during loading or as a result of diurnal temperature changes (breathing losses). 


(5) Pressure relief devices on affected storage tanks must be set to no less than 2.5 psig at all times to prevent breathing losses. The owner or operator shall record the setting as specified in § 63.1259(b)(12) and comply with the requirements for each pressure relief valve in paragraphs (f)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section: 


(i) The pressure relief valve shall be monitored quarterly using the method described in § 63.180(b). 


(ii) An instrument reading of 500 ppmv or greater defines a leak. 


(iii) When a leak is detected, it shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but no later than 5 days after it is detected, and the owner or operator shall comply with the recordkeeping requirements of § 63.1255(g)(4)(i) through (iv). 


(6) Railcars or tank trucks that deliver HAP to an affected storage tank must be reloaded or cleaned at a facility that utilizes one of the control techniques in paragraph (f)(6)(i) through (ii) of this section: 


(i) The railcar or tank truck must be connected to a closed-vent system with a control device that reduces inlet emissions of HAP by 90 percent by weight or greater; or


(ii) A vapor balancing system designed and operated to collect organic HAP vapor displaced from the tank truck or railcar during reloading must be used to route the collected HAP vapor to the storage tank from which the liquid being transferred originated. 


(7) The owner or operator of the facility where the railcar or tank truck is reloaded or cleaned must comply with the requirements in paragraph (f)(7)(i) through (iii) of this section: 


(i) Submit to the owner or operator of the affected storage tank and to the Administrator a written certification that the reloading or cleaning facility will meet the requirements of this section. The certifying entity may revoke the written certification by sending a written statement to the owner or operator of the affected storage tank giving at least 90 days notice that the certifying entity is rescinding acceptance of responsibility for compliance with the requirements of this paragraph (b)(7). 


(ii) If complying with paragraph (f)(6)(i) of this section, demonstrate initial compliance in accordance with § 63.1257(c), demonstrate continuous compliance in accordance with § 63.1258, keep records as specified in § 63.1259, and prepare reports as specified in § 63.1260. 


(iii) If complying with paragraph (f)(6)(ii) of this section, keep records of: 


(A) The equipment to be used and the procedures to be followed when reloading the railcar or tank truck and displacing vapors to the storage tank from which the liquid originates, and


(B) Each time the vapor balancing system is used to comply with paragraph (f)(6)(ii) of this section.



---

[N] [63 FR 50326, Sept. 21, 1998, as amended at 65 FR 52601, Aug. 29, 2000; 66 FR 40132, Aug. 2, 2001; 70 FR 25669, May 13, 2005]




