# § 204.4   Procedure for notification of the existence of records pertaining to individuals.

(a) The Copyright Office will publish in the _Federal Register,_ upon the establishment or revision of the system of records, notices of all Copyright Office systems of records subject to the Privacy Act, as provided by 5 U.S.C., section 552a(e)(4). Individuals desiring to know if a Copyright Office system of records contains a record pertaining to them should submit a written request to that effect either by mail to the Supervisory Copyright Information Specialist, U.S. Copyright Office, P.O. Box 70400, Washington, DC 20024-0400, or in person between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 5 p.m. on any working day except legal holidays at Room LM-401, The James Madison Memorial Building, 1st and Independence Avenue, SE, Washington, DC.


(b) The written request should identify clearly the system of records which is the subject of inquiry, by reference, whenever possible, to the system number and title as given in the notices of systems of records in the _Federal Register._ Both the written request and the envelope carrying it should be plainly marked “Privacy Act Request.” Failure to so mark the request may delay the Office's response.


(c) The Office will acknowledge all properly marked requests made by individuals wishing to gain access to view or copy their records or any information pertaining to the individual, within a reasonable time. The Office will acknowledge in writing an individual's request to amend a record pertaining to him or her within ten business days.


(d) Since all Copyright Office records created under section 705 of title 17 are open to public inspection, no identity verification is necessary for individuals who wish to know whether a system of records created under section 705 pertains to them.



---

[N] [43 FR 776, Jan. 4, 1978, as amended at 47 FR 36821, Aug. 24, 1982; 50 FR 697, Aug. 14, 1985; 60 FR 34169, June 30, 1995; 64 FR 36575, July 7, 1999; 65 FR 39820, June 28, 2000; 73 FR 37839, July 2, 2008; 82 FR 9364, Feb. 6, 2017]




