# ยง 67.01-15   Classification of structures.

(a) *When will structures be assigned to a Class?* The District Commander will assign structures to Class A, B, or C as part of processing an application for a permit to establish and operate lights and sound signals. 


(b) *In general, where will the different classes of structures be located?* Specific criteria in paragraph (c) of this section may create exceptions, but, in general, structures the farthest from shore are likely to be assigned to Class A and required to have obstruction lights and sound signals that can be detected from the farthest distance. Structures closest to shore are likely to be assigned to Class C and, while subject to requirements to ensure that they are also detectable from a safe distance away, will be required to have the least powerful obstruction lights or sound signals. The location and standards for Class B structures will generally be in between Class A and C structures. 


(c) *What criteria will be used to classify structures?* When assigning a structure to a class, the District Commander will take into consideration whether a line of demarcation has been prescribed, and matters concerning, but not necessarily limited to, the dimensions of the structure and the depth of water in which it is located, the proximity of the structure to vessel routes, the nature and amount of vessel traffic, and the effect of background lighting. 


(1) If a line of demarcation has been prescribed, the District Commander will assign those structures seaward of the line of demarcation to Class A. He or she will assign all structures shoreward of the line of demarcation to either Class B or Class C, unless the District Commander determines under ยง 67.05-25 that the structure should be assigned to Class A because of the structure's proximity to a navigable channel, fairway or line of demarcation. 


(2) If a line of demarcation has not been prescribed, the District Commander will assign a structure to Class A, B, or C as he or she deems appropriate.



---

[N] [USCG-2001-10714, 69 FR 24983, May 5, 2004]




