# § 721.11658   Naphthalene derivative (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as naphthalene derivative (PMN P-21-6) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1) and (3) through (5). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1) and (a)(4), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. For purposes of § 721.63(a)(5), respirators must provide a National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 50.


(ii) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (d), (f), (g)(1), (g)(3) and (g)(5). For purposes of § 721.72(g)(1), this substance may cause: acute toxicity; skin irritation; skin sensitization; germ cell mutagenicity; reproductive toxicity; specific target organ toxicity. For purposes of § 721.72(g)(3), this substance may cause: aquatic toxicity. Alternative hazard and warning statements that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(f) and (k).


(iv) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (i) and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitation or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.11 apply to paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section.





---

[N] [87 FR 59004, Sept. 29, 2022]










