# ยง 7.32   Pictured Rocks National Lakeshore.

(a) *Snowmobiles.* (1) Snowmobiles are allowed on the following routes and water surfaces within Pictured Rocks National Lakeshore:


(i) The Sand Point Road from the park boundary to Lake Superior. 


(ii) The woodlands road from the park boundary off City Limits Road southwest to Becker Farm and down to the Sand Point Road.


(iii) The road to Miner's Falls, Miner's Castle parking area, and the Miner's Beach parking area.


(iv) The road from the park boundary in section 32, T48N, R17W, to the end of the road to Chapel Falls.


(v) The road from County Road H-58 at the park boundary to the Little Beaver Lake Campground.


(vi) The road from County Road H-58 to the Twelvemile Beach Campground.


(vii) The road from County Road H-58 to the Hurricane River Campground.


(viii) The road from County Road H-58 to the Log Slide parking area.


(ix) The section of Michigan Dimension Road from the park boundary to the Log Slide parking area.


(x) The South Grand Sable Lake Road, starting at Towes Creek (T49N, R14W, Sections 14 and 23), heading south in and out of the fee zone area.


(xi) Portions of County Road H-58 that are within park boundaries between Twelvemile Beach and Log Slide scenic overlook (T49N, R15W, Sections 9, 10, 11, 13, 14, and 16 and T49, 14W, Section 18).


(xii) Portions of County Road H-58 that are within park boundaries between Log Slide Scenic Overlook and the Grand Sable Visitor Center (T49N, R14W, Sections 10, 11, 15, 16, and 17).


(xiii) County Road H-58 between Grand Sable Visitor Center to the eastern extent of the park boundary (T49N, R14W, Sections 1, 11, and 12).


(xiv) Portions of Lowder Road that are within park boundaries from M77 to Grand Sable Lake Boat Ramp (T48N, R16W, Sections 21 and 29).


(xv) Portions of Beaver Basin Overlook Road from County Road H-58 to the Beaver Basin Overlook (T49N, R14W, Sections 11, and 12).


(xvi) The frozen water surfaces of Lake Superior and Grand Sable Lake.


(2) Maps showing designated routes shall be available at park headquarters and at ranger stations.


(3) Snowmobile use outside designated routes and frozen water surfaces is prohibited. Snowmobiles are restricted to the road shoulders of routes that are plowed. The prohibitions in this paragraph do not apply to emergency administrative travel by employees of the National Park Service or law enforcement agencies.


(4) The Superintendent may open or close these routes and water surfaces, or portions thereof, to snowmobile travel after taking into consideration the location of wintering wildlife, appropriate snow cover, public safety, and other factors. The Superintendent will provide notice of such opening or closing by one or more of the methods listed in ยง 1.7(a) of this chapter.


(b) *Fishing.* Unless otherwise designated, fishing in a manner authorized under applicable State law is allowed. 


(c) *Hunting.* The following lakeshore areas are closed to hunting: 


(1) *Sand Point area.* All that portion of Sand Point described as the area below the top of the bluff in Sections 19 and 30, T47N, R18W, and that area situated within the corporate limits of the City of Munising, including the Sand Point Road. 


(2) *Developed public use areas.* (i) The area within 150 yards of any campsite located within the Little Beaver, Twelvemile Beach, and Hurricane River Campgrounds. 


(ii) The area within 150 yards of the Miners Castle overlooks, paved walkways and vehicle parking lot. Also 100 feet from the centerline of the paved Miners Castle Road and the area within 100 feet of Miners Falls parking lot, trail and associated platforms. 


(iii) The area within 100 feet of: the Chapel Falls parking lot; the Little Beaver backpacker parking lot; the Twelvemile Beach picnic area parking lot; the Log Slide parking lot, platforms and walkways; the Grand Sable Lake picnic area and parking lot; the Grand Sable Lake boat launch and parking lot; the Grand Sable Lake overlook parking lot. 


(iv) The area within 150 yards of any structure at the Au Sable Light Station, and within 100 feet of the trail between the lower Hurricane River Campground and the light station. 


(v) The area within 150 yards of the Sable Falls parking lot and building, including the viewing platforms and associated walkway system to the mouth of Sable Creek. Also included is the area 100 feet from the centerline of the paved Sable Falls Road. 


(vi) The area within 150 yards of: the Grand Sable Visitor Center parking lot and barn; the structures comprising the Grand Marais quarters and maintenance facility. 


(vii) The 8.6 acre tract comprising structures and lands administered by the National Park Service on Coast Guard Point in Grand Marais. 


(3) *Hunting season.* Hunting is prohibited park wide during the period of April 1 through Labor Day.


(d) *Personal Watercraft (PWC).* (1) PWC are allowed on the waters within Pictured Rocks National Lakeshore, from the western boundary of the lakeshore to the east end of Miners Beach.


(2) PWC may be launched only from a designated launch site at Sand Point.


(3) PWC users may beach their craft only at Sand Point Beach and Miners Beach.


(4) The Superintendent may temporarily limit, restrict, or terminate access to the areas designated for PWC use after taking into consideration public health and safety, natural and cultural resource protection, and other management activities and objectives.



---

[N] [47 FR 54932, Dec. 7, 1982, as amended at 49 FR 18450, Apr. 30, 1984; 60 FR 47703, Sept. 14, 1995; 70 FR 61905, Oct. 27, 2005; 87 FR 5405, Feb. 1, 2022]




