# § 192.283   Plastic pipe: Qualifying joining procedures.

(a) *Heat fusion, solvent cement, and adhesive joints.* Before any written procedure established under § 192.273(b) is used for making plastic pipe joints by a heat fusion, solvent cement, or adhesive method, the procedure must be qualified by subjecting specimen joints that are made according to the procedure to the following tests, as applicable:


(1) The test requirements of—


(i) In the case of thermoplastic pipe, based on the pipe material, the Sustained Pressure Test or the Minimum Hydrostatic Burst Test per the listed specification requirements. Additionally, for electrofusion joints, based on the pipe material, the Tensile Strength Test or the Joint Integrity Test per the listed specification.


(ii) In the case of thermosetting plastic pipe, paragraph 8.5 (Minimum Hydrostatic Burst Pressure) or paragraph 8.9 (Sustained Static Pressure Test) of ASTM D2517- 00 (incorporated by reference, *see* § 192.7).


(iii) In the case of electrofusion fittings for polyethylene (PE) pipe and tubing, paragraph 9.1 (Minimum Hydraulic Burst Pressure Test), paragraph 9.2 (Sustained Pressure Test), paragraph 9.3 (Tensile Strength Test), or paragraph 9.4 (Joint Integrity Tests) of ASTM F1055-98(2006) (incorporated by reference, *see* § 192.7).


(2) For procedures intended for lateral pipe connections, subject a specimen joint made from pipe sections joined at right angles according to the procedure to a force on the lateral pipe until failure occurs in the specimen. If failure initiates outside the joint area, the procedure qualifies for use.


(3) For procedures intended for non-lateral pipe connections, perform tensile testing in accordance with a listed specification. If the test specimen elongates no less than 25% or failure initiates outside the joint area, the procedure qualifies for use.


(b) *Mechanical joints.* Before any written procedure established under § 192.273(b) is used for making mechanical plastic pipe joints, the procedure must be qualified in accordance with a listed specification based upon the pipe material.


(c) A copy of each written procedure being used for joining plastic pipe must be available to the persons making and inspecting joints.



---

[N] [Amdt. 192-124, 83 FR 58718, Nov. 20, 2018, as amended at 86 FR 2240, Jan. 11, 2021]




