# ยง 609.2   Definitions.

For purposes of this part, the following definitions apply:


(a) *Active duty military consumer* means:


(1) A consumer in military service as defined in 15 U.S.C. 1681a(q)(1); or


(2) A member of the National Guard as defined in 10 U.S.C. 101(c).


(b) *Appropriate proof of identity* has the meaning set forth in 12 CFR 1022.123.


(c) *Consumer* has the meaning provided in 15 U.S.C. 1681a(c).


(d) *Consumer report* has the meaning provided in 15 U.S.C. 1681a(d).


(e) *Contact information* means information about a consumer, such as a consumer's first and last name and email address, that is reasonably necessary to collect in order to provide the electronic credit monitoring service.


(f) *Credit* has the meaning provided in 15 U.S.C. 1681a(r)(5).


(g) *Electronic credit monitoring service* means a service through which nationwide consumer reporting agencies provide, at a minimum, electronic notification of material additions or modifications to a consumer's file and following a notification, access to all information in the consumer's file at the nationwide consumer reporting agency at the time of the notification, in accordance with 15 U.S.C. 1681g(a).


(h) *Electronic notification* means:


(1) A notice provided to the consumer via:


(i) Mobile application;


(ii) Email; or


(iii) Text message;


(2) If the notice in paragraph (h)(1) of this section does not inform the consumer of the specific material addition or modification that has been made, such notice must link to a website that provides that information.


(i) *File* has the meaning provided in 15 U.S.C. 1681a(g).


(j) *Firm offer of credit* has the meaning provided in 15 U.S.C. 1681a(*l*).


(k) *Free* means provided at no cost to the consumer.


(l) *Material additions or modifications* means significant changes to a consumer's file, including:


(1) New accounts opened in the consumer's name, including new collection accounts;


(2) Inquiries or requests for a consumer report;


(i) However, an inquiry made for a prescreened list obtained for the purpose of making a firm offer of credit or insurance as described in 15 U.S.C. 1681b(c)(1)(B) or for the purpose of reviewing or collecting an account of the consumer shall not be considered a material addition or modification.


(ii) [Reserved]


(3) Material changes to a consumer's address;


(4) Changes to credit account limits of $100 or greater; and


(5) Negative information.


(m) *Nationwide consumer reporting agency* has the meaning provided in 15 U.S.C. 1681a(p).


(n) *Negative information* means accounts furnished to the nationwide consumer reporting agencies as more than 30 days delinquent, accounts furnished to the nationwide consumer reporting agencies as being included in bankruptcy petition filings, and new public records, including, but not limited to, bankruptcy filings, civil court judgments, foreclosures, liens, and convictions.




