# § 63.993   Absorbers, condensers, carbon adsorbers and other recovery devices used as final recovery devices.

(a) *Final recovery device equipment and operating requirements.* (1) Owners or operators using a final recovery device to maintain a TRE above a level specified in a referencing subpart shall meet the requirements of this section.


(2) Recovery devices used to comply with the provisions of a referencing subpart and this subpart shall be operated at all times when emissions are vented to them.


(b) *Recovery device performance test requirements.* There are no performance test requirements for recovery devices. TRE index value determination information shall be recorded as specified in § 63.998(a)(3).


(c) *Recovery device monitoring requirements.* (1) Where an absorber is the final recovery device in the recovery system and the TRE index value is between the level specified in a referencing subpart and 4.0, either an organic monitoring device capable of providing a continuous record or a scrubbing liquid temperature monitoring device and a specific gravity monitoring device, each capable of providing a continuous record, shall be used. If the difference between the specific gravity of the saturated scrubbing fluid and specific gravity of the fresh scrubbing fluid is less than 0.02 specific gravity units, an organic monitoring device capable of providing a continuous record shall be used. Monitoring results shall be recorded as specified in § 63.998(b) and (c), as applicable. General requirements for monitoring and continuous parameter monitoring systems are contained in § 63.996.


(2) Where a condenser is the final recovery device in the recovery system and the TRE index value is between the level specified in a referencing subpart and 4.0, an organic monitoring device capable of providing a continuous record or a condenser exit (product side) temperature monitoring device capable of providing a continuous record shall be used. Monitoring results shall be recorded as specified in § 63.998(b) and (c), as applicable. General requirements for monitoring and continuous parameter monitoring systems are contained in a referencing subpart and § 63.996.


(3) Where a carbon adsorber is the final recovery device in the recovery system and the TRE index value is between the level specified in a referencing subpart and 4.0, an organic monitoring device capable of providing a continuous record or an integrating regeneration stream flow monitoring device having an accuracy of ±10 percent or better, capable of recording the total regeneration stream mass or volumetric flow for each regeneration cycle; and a carbon-bed temperature monitoring device, capable of recording the carbon-bed temperature after each regeneration and within 15 minutes of completing any cooling cycle shall be used. Monitoring results shall be recorded as specified in § 63.998(b) and (c), as applicable. General requirements for monitoring and continuous parameter monitoring systems are contained in a referencing subpart and § 63.996.


(4) If an owner or operator uses a recovery device other than those listed in this subpart, the owner or operator shall submit a description of planned monitoring, reporting and recordkeeping procedures as specified in a referencing subpart. The Administrator will approve, deny, or modify based on the reasonableness of the proposed monitoring, reporting and recordkeeping requirements as part of the review of the submission or permit application or by other appropriate means.




