# § 1209.36   Scheduling and pre-hearing conferences.

(a) *Scheduling conference.* After service of a notice of charges commencing a proceeding under this part, the presiding officer shall order the representative(s) of record for each party, and any party not so represented who is appearing *pro se,* to meet in person or to confer by telephone at a specified time within 30 days of service of such notice for the purpose of setting the time and place of the testimonial hearing on the record to be held within the District of Columbia and scheduling the course and conduct of the proceeding (the “scheduling conference”). The identification of potential witnesses, the time for and manner of discovery, and the exchange of any pre-hearing materials including witness lists, statements of issues, stipulations, exhibits, and any other materials also may be determined at the scheduling conference.


(b) *Pre-hearing conferences.* The presiding officer may, in addition to the scheduling conference, on his or her own motion or at the request of any party, direct representatives for the parties to meet with (in person or by telephone) at a pre-hearing conference to address any or all of the following:


(1) Simplification and clarification of the issues;


(2) Stipulations, admissions of fact and the contents, authenticity and admissibility into evidence of documents;


(3) Matters of which official notice may be taken;


(4) Limitation of the number of witnesses;


(5) Summary disposition of any or all issues;


(6) Resolution of discovery issues or disputes;


(7) Amendments to pleadings; and


(8) Such other matters as may aid in the orderly disposition of the proceeding.


(c) *Transcript.* The presiding officer, in his or her discretion, may require that a scheduling or pre-hearing conference be recorded by a court reporter. Any transcript of the conference and any materials filed, including orders, become part of the record of the proceeding. A party may obtain a copy of a transcript at such party's expense.


(d) *Scheduling or pre-hearing orders.* Within a reasonable time following the conclusion of the scheduling conference or any pre-hearing conference, the presiding officer shall serve on each party an order setting forth any agreements reached and any procedural determinations made.




