# § 37.6   Disclosures.

(a) *Content of short form of disclosures.* The short form of disclosures required by this part must include the information described in appendix A to this part that is appropriate to the product offered. Short form disclosures made in a form that is substantially similar to the disclosures in appendix A to this part will satisfy the short form disclosure requirements of this section. 


(b) *Content of long form of disclosures.* The long form of disclosures required by this part must include the information described in appendix B to this part that is appropriate to the product offered. Long form disclosures made in a form that is substantially similar to the disclosures in appendix B to this part will satisfy the long form disclosure requirements of this section. 


(c) *Disclosure requirements; timing and method of disclosures*—(1) *Short form disclosures.* The bank shall make the short form disclosures orally at the time the bank first solicits the purchase of a contract. 


(2) *Long form disclosures.* The bank shall make the long form disclosures in writing before the customer completes the purchase of the contract. If the initial solicitation occurs in person, then the bank shall provide the long form disclosures in writing at that time. 


(3) *Special rule for transactions by telephone.* If the contract is solicited by telephone, the bank shall provide the short form disclosures orally and shall mail the long form disclosures, and, if appropriate, a copy of the contract to the customer within 3 business days, beginning on the first business day after the telephone solicitation. 


(4) *Special rule for solicitations using written mail inserts or “take one” applications.* If the contract is solicited through written materials such as mail inserts or “take one” applications, the bank may provide only the short form disclosures in the written materials if the bank mails the long form disclosures to the customer within 3 business days, beginning on the first business day after the customer contacts the bank to respond to the solicitation, subject to the requirements of § 37.7(c).


(5) *Special rule for electronic transactions.* The disclosures described in this section may be provided through electronic media in a manner consistent with the requirements of the Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act, 15 U.S.C. 7001 *et seq.*

(d) *Form of disclosures*—(1) *Disclosures must be readily understandable.* The disclosures required by this section must be conspicuous, simple, direct, readily understandable, and designed to call attention to the nature and significance of the information provided. 


(2) *Disclosures must be meaningful.* The disclosures required by this section must be in a meaningful form. Examples of methods that could call attention to the nature and significance of the information provided include: 


(i) A plain-language heading to call attention to the disclosures; 


(ii) A typeface and type size that are easy to read; 


(iii) Wide margins and ample line spacing; 


(iv) Boldface or italics for key words; and 


(v) Distinctive type style, and graphic devices, such as shading or sidebars, when the disclosures are combined with other information. 


(e) *Advertisements and other promotional material for debt cancellation contracts and debt suspension agreements.* The short form disclosures are required in advertisements and promotional material for contracts unless the advertisements and promotional materials are of a general nature describing or listing the services or products offered by the bank. 




