# § 403.4   Simplified annual reports for smaller labor organizations.

(a)(1) If a labor organization, not in trusteeship, has gross annual receipts totaling less than $250,000 for its fiscal year, it may elect, subject to revocation of the privileges as provided in section 208 of the Act, to file the annual financial report called for in section 201(b) of the Act and § 403.3 of this part on United States Department of Labor Form LM-3 entitled “Labor Organization Annual Report,” in accordance with the instructions accompanying such form and constituting a part thereof.


(2) If a labor organization, not in trusteeship, has gross annual receipts totaling less than $10,000 for its fiscal year, it may elect, subject to revocation of the privileges as provided in section 208 of the Act, to file the annual financial report called for in section 201(b) of the Act and § 403.3 on United States Department of Labor Form LM-4 entitled “Labor Organization Annual Report” in accordance with the instructions accompanying such form and constituting a part thereof.


(b) A local labor organization not in trusteeship, which has no assets, no liabilities, no receipts and no disbursements during the period covered by the annual report of the national organization with which it is affiliated need not file the annual report required by § 403.2 if the following conditions are met:


(1) It is governed by a uniform constitution and bylaws filed on its behalf pursuant to § 402.3(b) of this chapter, and does not have governing rules of its own;


(2) Its members are subject to uniform fees and dues applicable to all members of the local labor organizations for which such simplified reports are submitted;


(3) The national organization with which it is affiliated assumes responsibility for the accuracy of a statement filed electronically, through the electronic filing system made available on the Office of Labor-Management Standards website, covering each local labor organization covered by this paragraph (b) and containing the following information with respect to each local organization:


(i) The name and designation number or other identifying information;


(ii) The file number which the Office of Labor-Management Standards has assigned to it;


(iii) The mailing address;


(iv) The beginning and ending date of the reporting period which must be the same as that of the report for the national organization;


(v) The names and titles of the president and treasurer or corresponding principal officers as of the end of the reporting period;


(4) At least thirty days prior to first submitting simplified annual reports in accordance with this section, the national organization notifies the Office of Labor-Management Standards in writing of its intent to begin submitting simplified annual reports for affiliated local labor organizations;


(5) The national organization files the terminal report required by 29 CFR 403.5(a) on Form LM-3 or LM-4, as may be appropriate, clearly labeled on the form as a terminal report, for any local labor organization which has lost its identity through merger, consolidation, or otherwise if the national organization filed a simplified annual report on behalf of the local labor organization for its last reporting period; and


(6) The national organization with which it is affiliated assumes responsibility for the accuracy of, and submits with its simplified annual reports filed electronically pursuant to § 403.4(b)(3) for the affiliated local labor organizations, the following certification properly completed and signed by the president and treasurer of the national organization:



---

[N] [28 FR 14383, Dec. 27, 1963, as amended at 37 FR 10669, May 26, 1972; 41 FR 27318, July 2, 1976; 45 FR 7525, Feb. 1, 1980; 50 FR 31309, Aug. 1, 1985; 50 FR 31310, Aug. 1, 1985; 57 FR 49290, 49357, Oct. 30, 1992; 62 FR 6092, Feb. 10, 1997; 64 FR 71623, Dec. 21, 1999; 65 FR 21141, Apr. 20, 2000; 81 FR 33389, May 26, 2016; 86 FR 74371, Dec. 30, 2021]




