# ยง 21.74   Extended evaluation.

(a) *General.* An extended evaluation may be authorized for the period necessary to determine whether the attainment of a vocational goal is currently reasonably feasible for the veteran. The services which may be provided during the period of extended evaluation are listed in ยง 21.57(b) of this part.


(b) *Duration.* An extended evaluation may not be for less than two weeks (full or part-time equivalent) nor for more than twelve months, unless a longer period is necessary to determine whether achievement of a vocational goal is reasonably feasible.


(c) *Approval of the period of an extended evaluation.* (1) The Counseling Psychologist (CP) or Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor (VRC) may approve an initial period of up to 12 months for an extended evaluation.


(2) An additional period of extended evaluation of up to 6 months may be approved by the CP or VRC, if there is reasonable certainty that the feasibility of achieving a vocational goal can be determined during the additional period. The CP or VRC will obtain the concurrence of the Veteran Readiness and Employment (VR&E) Officer before approving the extension of a period of extended evaluation.


(3) An extension beyond a total period of 18 months for additional periods of up to 6 months each may only be approved by the CP or VRC if there is a substantial certainty that a determination of current feasibility may be made within this extended period. The concurrence of the VR&E Officer is also required for this extension.



---

[N] [49 FR 40814, Oct. 18, 1984, as amended at 53 FR 50957, Dec. 19, 1988; 54 FR 37332, Sept. 8, 1989; 62 FR 17707, Apr. 11, 1997; 81 FR 26131, May 2, 2016; 87 FR 8742, Feb. 16, 2022]




