# 25.702-4   Waiver.

(a) The President may waive the requirement of subsection 25.702-2 on a case-by-case basis if the President determines and certifies in writing to the appropriate congressional committees that it is in the national interest to do so.


(b) An agency seeking waiver of the requirement shall submit the request to the Administrator of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy (OFPP), allowing sufficient time for review and approval. Upon receipt of the waiver request, OFPP shall consult with the President's National Security Council, Office of African Affairs, and the Department of State Sudan Office and Sanctions Office to assess foreign policy aspects of making a national interest recommendation.


(c) Agencies may request a waiver on an individual or class basis; however, waivers are not indefinite and can be cancelled if warranted.


(1) A class waiver may be requested only when the class of supplies is not available from any other source and it is in the national interest.


(2) Prior to submitting the waiver request, the request must be reviewed and cleared by the agency head.


(3) All waiver requests must include the following information:


(i) Agency name, complete mailing address, and point of contact name, telephone number, and email address;


(ii) Offeror's name, complete mailing address, and point of contact name, telephone number, and email address;


(iii) Description/nature of product or service;


(iv) The total cost and length of the contract;


(v) Justification, with market research demonstrating that no other offeror can provide the product or service and stating why the product or service must be procured from this offeror, as well as why it is in the national interest for the President to waive the prohibition on contracting with this offeror that conducts restricted business operations in Sudan, including consideration of foreign policy aspects identified in consultation(s) pursuant to 25.702-4(b);


(vi) Documentation regarding the offeror's past performance and integrity (see the Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting System (CPARS) including the Federal Awardee Performance Information and Integrity System at *https://www.cpars.gov”* and any other relevant information);


(vii) Information regarding the offeror's relationship or connection with other firms that conduct prohibited business operations in Sudan; and


(viii) Any humanitarian efforts engaged in by the offeror, the human rights impact of doing business with the offeror for which the waiver is requested, and the extent of the offeror's business operations in Sudan.


(d) The consultation in 25.702-4(b) and the information in 25.702-4(c)(3) will be considered in determining whether to recommend that the President waive the requirement of subsection 25.702-2. In accordance with section 6(c) of the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007, OFPP will semiannually submit a report to Congress, on April 15th and October 15th, on the waivers granted.



---

[N] [73 FR 33638, June 12, 2008, as amended at 76 FR 68038, Nov. 2, 2011; 84 FR 47866, Sept. 10, 2019]




