# § 1616.2   Definitions.

In addition to the definitions given in section 2 of the Flammable Fabrics Act, as amended (15 U.S.C. 1191), the following definitions apply for purposes of this Standard:


(a) Children's sleepwear means any product of wearing apparel size 7 through 14, such as nightgowns, pajamas, or similar or related items, such as robes, intended to be worn primarily for sleeping or activities related to sleeping, except:


(1) Diapers and underwear; and


(2) “Tight-fitting garments” as defined by section 1616.2(m), below.


(b) *Sizes 7 through 14* means the sizes defined as 7 through 14 in Department of Commerce Voluntary Product Standards PS 54-72 and PS 36-70, previously identified as Commercial Standards, CS 153-48, “Body Measurements for the Sizing of Girls' Apparel” and CS 155-50, “Body Measurements for the Sizing of Boys' Apparel”, respectively. 
1

(c) *Item* means any product of children's sleepwear or any fabric of related material intended or promoted for use in children's sleepwear.


(d) *Trim* means decorative materials, such as ribbons, laces, embroidery, or ornaments. This definition does not include (1) individual pieces less than 2 inches in their longest dimension, provided that such pieces do not constitute or cover in aggregate a total of more than 20 square inches of the item or (2) functional materials (findings), such as zippers, buttons or elastic bands, used in the construction of garments.


(e) *Test criteria* means the average char length and the maximum char length which a sample of specimen may exhibit in order to pass an individual test.


(f) *Char length* means the distance from the original lower edge of the specimen exposed to the flame in accordance with the procedure specified in § 1616.5 *Test procedure* to the end of the tear or void in the charred, burned, or damaged area, the tear being made in accordance with the procedure specified in § 1615.5(c)(2) *Specimen burning and evaluation.*

(g) *Afterglow* means the continuation of glowing of parts of a specimen after flaming has ceased.


(h) *Fabric piece* (piece) means a continuous, unseamed length of fabric, one or more of which make up a unit.


(i) *Fabric production unit* (unit) means any quantity of finished fabric up to 4,600 linear m. (5,000 linear yds.) for Normal Sampling or 9,200 linear m. (10,000 linear yds.) for Reduced Sampling which has a specific identity that remains unchanged throughout the unit except for color or print pattern as specified in § 1616.4(a). For purposes of this definition, finished fabric means fabric in its final form after completing its last processing step as a fabric except for slitting.


(j) *Garment production unit* (unit) means any quantity of finished garments up to 500 dozen which have a specific identity that remains unchanged throughout the unit except for size, trim, findings, color, and print patterns as specified in § 1616.4(a).


(k) *Sample* means five test specimens.


(l) *Specimen* means an 8.9±0.5 × 25.4±0.5 cm. (3.5±0.2 × 10±0.2 in.) section of fabric. For garment testing, the specimen will include a seam or trim.


(m) Tight-fitting garment means a garment which:


(1)(i) In each of the sizes listed below does not exceed the maximum dimension specified below for the chest, waist, seat, upper arm, thigh, wrist, or ankle:


(ii) Note: Measure the dimensions on the front of the garment. Lay garment, right side out, on a flat, horizontal surface. Smooth out wrinkles. Measure distances as specified below and multiply them by two. Measurements should be equal to or less than the maximum dimensions given in the standards.


(A) Chest—measure distance from arm pit to arm pit (A to B) as in Diagram 1.


(B) Waist—See Diagram 1. *One-piece garment,* measure at the narrowest location between arm pits and crotch (C to D). *Two-piece garment,* measure width at both the bottom/sweep of the upper piece (C to D) and, as in Diagram 3, the top of the lower piece (C to D).


(C) Wrist—measure the width of the end of the sleeve (E to F), if intended to extend to the wrist, as in Diagram 1.


(D) Upper arm—draw a straight line from waist/sweep D through arm pit B to G. Measure down the sleeve fold from G to H. Refer to table below for G to H distances for each size. Measure the upper arm of the garment (perpendicular to the fold) from H to I as shown in Diagram 1.


(E) Seat—Fold the front of the pant in half to find the bottom of the crotch at J as in Diagram 2. The crotch seam and inseam intersect at J. Mark point K on the crotch seam at 4 inches above and perpendicular to the bottom of the crotch. Unfold the garment as in Diagram 3. Measure the seat from L to M through K as shown.


(F) Thigh—measure from the bottom of the crotch (J) 1 inch down the inseam to N as in Diagram 2. Unfold the garment and measure the thigh from the inseam at N to O as shown in Diagram 3.


(G) Ankle—measure the width of the end of the leg (P to Q), if intended to extend to the ankle, as in Diagram 3.


(2) Has no item of fabric, ornamentation or trim, such as lace, appliques, or ribbon, which extends more than 6 millimeters (
1/4 inch) from the point of attachment to the outer surface of the garment;


(3) Has sleeves which do not exceed the maximum dimension for the upper arm at any point between the upper arm and the wrist, and which diminish in width gradually from the top of the shoulder (point G in Diagram 1) to the wrist;


(4) Has legs which do not exceed the maximum dimension for the thigh at any point between the thigh and the ankle, and which diminish gradually in width between the thigh and the ankle;


(5) In the case of a one-piece garment, has a width which does not exceed the maximum dimension for the chest at any point between the chest and the waist and which diminishes gradually from the chest to the waist; and has a width which does not exceed the maximum dimension for the seat at any point between the seat and the waist and which diminishes gradually from the seat to the waist;


(6) In the case of a two-piece garment, has an upper piece with a width which does not exceed the maximum distance for the chest at any point between the chest and the bottom of that piece and which diminishes gradually from the chest to the bottom of that piece; in the case of an upper piece with fastenings, has the lowest fastening within 15 centimeters (6 inches) of the bottom of that piece;


(7) In the case of a two-piece garment, has a lower piece with a width which does not exceed the maximum dimension for the seat at any point between the seat and the top of the lower piece and which diminishes gradually from the seat to the top of that piece;


(8) Complies with all applicable requirements of the Standard for the Flammability of Clothing Textiles (16 CFR part 1610) and the Standard for the Flammability of Vinyl Plastic Film (16 CFR part 1611); and 


(9) Bears a label stating the size of the garment; for example “Size 7.” If the label is not visible to the consumer when the garment is offered for sale at retail, the garment size must appear legibly on the package of the garment.


*Effective date:* These amendments shall become effective on January 1, 1997, and shall be applicable to garments which are introduced into commerce on or after that date.


(10)(i) *Hangtags.* Bears a hangtag as shown following this paragraph stating “For child's safety, garment should fit snugly. This garment is not flame resistant. Loose-fitting garment is more likely to catch fire.” The hangtag must measure 1
1/2″ × 6
1/4″. The text must be enclosed in a text box that measures 1″ × 5
3/4″ and must be in 18 point Arial/Helvetica font. The hangtag must have a yellow background and black lettering. The color yellow must meet the specifications for Standard Safety Yellow (Hue 5.OY; Value/Chroma 8.0/12) as described in American National Standard ANSI Z535.1-1998, Safety Color Code, p.6, under Munsell Notation. 
2 One side of the hangtag must display only this message. The reverse side of the hangtag may display sizing information, but otherwise must be blank. The text must not be obscured by the hole provided for attaching the hangtag to the garment. The hangtag must be prominently displayed on the garment. 


(ii) *Packages.* If the garments are sold in packages, the package must have a label as shown following this paragraph with the same language that would appear on the hangtag. The label must have a text box that measures 
3/4 × 3
3/4. The text must be 11 point Arial/Helvetica in black lettering against a yellow background. The packages must be prominently, conspicuously, and legibly labeled with the required message. The package label may be adhesive. 


(11) Bears a label as shown following this paragraph stating “Wear Snug-fitting, Not Flame Resistant.” The text must be printed on the front of the sizing label located on the center back of the garment and must be immediately below the size designation. The text must be a minimum of 5 point sans serif font in all capital letters and must be set apart from other label text by a line border. The text must contrast with the background color of the label. The label must not be covered by any other label or tag. 



---

[N] [40 FR 59917, Dec. 30, 1975, as amended at 50 FR 53307, Dec. 31, 1985; 61 FR 47646, Sept. 9, 1996; 64 FR 2841, Jan. 19, 1999; 64 FR 34535, June 28, 1999; 64 FR 48705, Sept. 8, 1999; 64 FR 61021, Nov. 9, 1999]





