# § 1.6081-9   Automatic extension of time to file exempt or political organization returns.

(a) *In general.* An entity required to file a return on a form in the Form 990 series (Form 990, “Return of Organization Exempt From Income Tax,” Form 990-BL, “Information and Initial Excise Tax Return for Black Lung Benefit Trusts and Certain Related Persons,” Form 990-EZ, “Short Form Return of Organization Exempt From Income Tax,” Form 990-PF, “Return of Private Foundation,” and Form 990-T, “Exempt Organization Business Tax Return”), Form 1041-A, “U.S. Information Return-Trust Accumulation of Charitable Amounts,” Form 1120-POL, “U.S. Income Tax Return for Certain Political Organizations,” Form 4720, “Return of Certain Excise Taxes Under Chapters 41 and 42 of the Internal Revenue Code,” Form 5227, “Split-Interest Trust Information Return,” Form 6069, “Return of Excise Tax on Excess Contributions to Black Lung Benefit Trust Under Section 4953 and Computation of Section 192 Deduction,” and Form 8870, “Information Return for Transfers Associated With Certain Personal Benefit Contracts,” will be allowed an automatic six-month extension of time to file the return after the date prescribed for filing if the entity files an application in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.




(b) *Requirements.* To satisfy this paragraph (b), an application for an automatic extension under this section must—


(1) Be submitted on Form 7004, “Application for Automatic Extension of Time to File Certain Business Income Tax, Information, and Other Returns” (in the case of an extension of time to file Form 1120-POL), Form 8868, “Application for Automatic Extension of Time to File an Exempt Organization Return” (in the case of an extension of time to file any other return listed in paragraph (a) of this section), or in any other manner as may be prescribed by the Commissioner;




(2) Be filed with the Internal Revenue Service office designated in the application's instructions on or before the date prescribed for filing the return;




(3) Show the full amount properly estimated as tentative tax for the entity for the taxable year; and








(4) Be accompanied by the full remittance of the amount properly estimated as tentative tax which is unpaid as of the date prescribed for the filing of the return.




(c) *Termination of automatic extension.* The Commissioner may terminate an automatic extension at any time by mailing to the entity a notice of termination. The notice must be mailed at least 10 days prior to the termination date designated in such notice. The notice of termination must be mailed to the address shown on the application for extension or to the entity's last known address. For further guidance regarding the definition of last known address, see § 301.6212-2 of this chapter.


(d) *Penalties.* See sections 6651 and 6652(c) for failure to file a return or failure to pay the amount shown as tax on the return.


(e) *Coordination with § 1.6081-1.* No extension of time will be granted under § 1.6081-1 for filing a return listed in paragraph (a) of this section until an automatic extension has been allowed pursuant to this section.


(f) *Applicability date.* This section applies to requests for extensions of time to file returns listed in paragraph (a) of this section on or after January 30, 2020. Sections 1.6081-3T and 1.6081-9T (as contained in 26 CFR part 1, revised April 2019) apply to requests for extensions before January 30, 2020.





---

[N] [T.D. 9163, 69 FR 70549, Dec. 7, 2004, as amended by T.D. 9821, 82 FR 33447, July 20, 2017; T.D. 9892, 85 FR 5327, Jan. 30, 2020]






