# § 200.401   Application.

(a) *General.* The recipient and subrecipient must apply these principles in determining allowable costs under Federal awards. The recipient and subrecipient must also use these principles as a guide in pricing fixed-price contracts and subcontracts when costs are used in determining the appropriate price. These cost principles do not apply to:


(1) Arrangements under which Federal financing is in the form of loans, scholarships, fellowships, traineeships, or other fixed amounts based on items such as education allowance or published tuition rates and fees.


(2) Capitation awards based on case counts or the number of beneficiaries.


(3) Fixed amount awards, except as provided in § 200.101(b). See also § 200.201.


(4) Federal awards to hospitals (see Appendix IX of this part).


(5) Food commodities provided through grants and cooperative agreements.


(6) Other awards under which the recipient or subrecipient is not required to account for actual costs incurred.


(b) *Federal contract.* A Federal contract awarded to a recipient is subject to the Cost Accounting Standards (CAS). It must incorporate the applicable CAS requirements per 48 CFR Chapter 99 and 48 CFR part 30 (FAR Part 30). With respect to the allocation of costs, the Cost Accounting Standards at 48 CFR parts 9904 or 9905 take precedence over the cost principles in subpart E. When a contract with a recipient is subject to full CAS coverage, the allowability of certain costs under the cost principles will be affected by the allocation provisions of the Cost Accounting Standards (for example, CAS 414—48 CFR 9904.414—Cost of Money as an Element of the Cost of Facilities Capital, and CAS 417—48 CFR 9904.417—Cost of Money as an Element of the Cost of Capital Assets Under Construction, apply instead of the allowability provisions of § 200.449). For example, the allowability of costs in CAS-covered contracts is determined first by the allocation provisions of the Cost Accounting Standards rather than the allowability provisions in § 200.449 (unless the CAS does not address the specific costs). In complying with those requirements, the recipient's application of cost accounting practices for estimating, accumulating, and reporting costs for Federal awards and CAS-covered contracts must be consistent with 48 CFR. The recipient only needs to maintain one set of accounting records supporting the allocation of costs if the recipient administers both Federal awards and CAS-covered contracts.


(c) *Exemptions.* Some nonprofit organizations, because of their size and nature of operations, can be considered to be similar to for-profit organizations in terms of the applicability of cost principles. These nonprofit organizations must operate under Federal cost principles that apply to for-profit organizations located at 48 CFR 31.2. Appendix VIII contains a list of these nonprofit organizations. Other organizations may be added to this list if approved by the cognizant agency for indirect costs.




