# ยง 702.3   Definitions.

For purposes of this subpart, the following definitions apply:


*Act* means the Toxic Substances Control Act, as amended (15 U.S.C. 2601 *et seq.*).


*Conditions of use* means the circumstances, as determined by the Administrator, under which a chemical substance is intended, known, or reasonably foreseen to be manufactured, processed, distributed in commerce, used, or disposed of.


*EPA* means the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.


*High-priority substance* means a chemical substance that EPA determines, without consideration of costs or other non-risk factors, may present an unreasonable risk of injury to health or the environment because of a potential hazard and a potential route of exposure under the conditions of use, including an unreasonable risk to potentially exposed or susceptible subpopulations identified as relevant by EPA.


*Low-priority substance* means a chemical substance that EPA concludes, based on information sufficient to establish, without consideration of costs or other non-risk factors, does not meet the standard for a High-Priority Substance.


*Potentially exposed or susceptible subpopulation* means a group of individuals within the general population identified by the Administrator who, due to either greater susceptibility or greater exposure, may be at greater risk than the general population of adverse health effects from exposure to a chemical substance or mixture, such as infants, children, pregnant women, workers, or the elderly.


*Reasonably available information* means information that EPA possesses or can reasonably generate, obtain and synthesize for use, considering the deadlines specified in 15 U.S.C. 2605(b) for prioritization and risk evaluation. Information that meets such terms is reasonably available information whether or not the information is confidential business information that is protected from public disclosure under 15 U.S.C. 2613.




