# ยง 1.132   Definitions.

As used in this subpart, the terms as defined in the statute under which the proceeding is conducted and in the regulations, standards, instructions, or orders issued thereunder, shall apply with equal force and effect. In addition and except as may be provided otherwise in this subpart:


*Administrator* means the Administrator of the Agency administering the statute involved, or any officer or employee of the Agency to whom authority has heretofore been delegated, or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated, to act for the Administrator.


*Complainant* means the party instituting the proceeding.


*Complaint* means the formal complaint, order to show cause, or other document by virtue of which a proceeding is instituted.


*Decision* means: (1) The Judge's initial decision made in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 556 and 557, and includes the Judge's (i) findings and conclusions and the reasons or basis therefor on all material issues of fact, law or discretion, (ii) order, and (iii) rulings on proposed findings, conclusions and orders submitted by the parties; and


(2) The decision and order by the Judicial Officer upon appeal of the Judge's decision.


*Hearing* means that part of the proceeding which involves the submission of evidence before the Judge for the record in the proceeding.


*Hearing Clerk* means the Hearing Clerk, United States Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250.


*Judge* means any Administrative Law Judge appointed pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3105 and assigned to the proceeding involved.


*Judicial Officer* means an official of the United States Department of Agriculture delegated authority by the Secretary of Agriculture, pursuant to the Act of April 4, 1940 (7 U.S.C. 450c-450g) and Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. App. (1988)), to perform the function involved (ยง 2.35(a) of this chapter), or the Secretary of Agriculture if the authority so delegated is exercised by the Secretary.


*Mail* means to deposit an item in the United States Mail with postage affixed and addressed as necessary to cause it to be delivered to the address shown by ordinary mail, or by certified or registered mail if specified. 


*Petitioner* means an individual who has filed a petition for review of a determination that the individual is responsibly connected to a licensee within the meaning of 7 U.S.C. 499a(b)(9).


*Re-mail* means to mail by ordinary mail to an address an item that has been returned after being sent to the same address by certified or registered mail.


*Respondent* means the party proceeded against.



---

[N] [42 FR 743, Jan. 4, 1977, as amended at 55 FR 30673, July 27, 1990; 60 FR 8455, Feb. 14, 1995; 61 FR 11503, Mar. 21, 1996; 68 FR 6340, Feb. 7, 2003]




