# § 262.5   Systems (Privacy).

(a) *Privacy Act system of records.* A Postal Service system containing information about individuals, including mailing lists, from which information is retrieved by the name of an individual or by some identifying number or symbol assigned to the individual, such as a Social Security Account Number.


(b) *Individual (record subject).* A living person. Does not include sole proprietorships, partnerships or corporations. A business firm identified by the name of one or more persons is not an individual.


(c) *Computer matching program.* A “matching program,” as defined in the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a(a)(8), is subject to the matching provisions of the Act, published guidance of the Office of Management and Budget, and these regulations. The term “matching program” includes any computerized comparison of: 


(1) A Postal Service automated system of records with an automated system of records of another Federal agency, or with non-Federal records, for the purpose of: 


(i) Establishing or verifying the eligibility of, or continuing compliance with statutory and regulatory requirements by, applicants for, recipients or beneficiaries of, participants in, or providers of services with respect to, cash or in-kind assistance or payments under Federal benefit programs, or 


(ii) Recouping payments or delinquent debts under such Federal benefit programs; 


(2) A Postal Service automated personnel or payroll system of records with another automated personnel or payroll system of records of the Postal Service or other Federal Agency or with non-Federal records. 


(d) *Other computer matching activities.* (1) The following kinds of computer matches are specifically excluded from the term “matching program”: 


(i) Statistical matches whose purpose is solely to produce aggregate data stripped of personal identifiers. 


(ii) Statistical matches whose purpose is in support of any research or statistical project. 


(iii) Law enforcement investigative matches whose purpose is to gather evidence against a named person or persons in an existing investigation. 


(iv) Tax administration matches. 


(v) Routine administrative matches using Federal personnel records, provided that the purpose is not to take any adverse action against an individual. 


(vi) Internal matches using only records from Postal Service systems of records, provided that the purpose is not to take any adverse action against any individual. 


(vii) Matches performed for security clearance background checks or for foreign counterintelligence. 


(2) Although these and other matching activities that fall outside the definition of “matching program” are not subject to the matching provisions of the Privacy Act or OMB guidance, other provisions of the Act and of these regulations may be applicable. No matching program or other matching activity may be conducted without the prior approval of the Records Office. 



---

[N] [49 FR 30693, Aug. 1, 1984, as amended at 59 FR 37160, July 21, 1994; 60 FR 57344, Nov. 15, 1995; 64 FR 41290, July 30, 1999; 68 FR 56558, Oct. 1, 2003]




