# § 171.103   Standards for certification of commercial applicators.

(a) *Determination of competency.* To be determined to have the necessary competency in the use and handling of restricted use pesticides by a State, Tribe, or Federal agency, a commercial applicator must receive a passing score on a written examination that meets the standards specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section and any related performance testing that is required by the State, Tribe, or Federal agency. Examinations and any alternate methods employed by the certifying authority to determine applicator competency must include the core standards applicable to all categories (paragraph (c) of this section) and the standards applicable to each category in which an applicator seeks certification (paragraph (d) of this section). Certification processes must meet all of the following criteria:


(1) *Commercial applicator minimum age.* A commercial applicator must be at least 18 years old.


(2) *Examination standards.* The certifying authority must ensure that examinations conform to all of the following standards:


(i) The examination must be presented and answered in writing.


(ii) The examination must be proctored by an individual designated by the certifying authority and who is not seeking certification at any examination session that he or she is proctoring.


(iii) Each person seeking certification must present at the time of examination valid, government-issued photo identification or other form of similarly reliable identification authorized by the certifying authority as proof of identity and age to be eligible for certification.


(iv) Candidates must be monitored throughout the examination period.


(v) Candidates must be instructed in examination procedures before beginning the examination.


(vi) Examinations must be kept secure before, during, and after the examination period so that only the candidates have access to the examination, and candidates have access only in the presence of the proctor.


(vii) Candidates must not have verbal or non-verbal communication with anyone other than the proctor during the examination period.


(viii) No portion of the examination or any associated reference materials described in paragraph (a)(2)(ix) of this section may be copied or retained by any person other than a person authorized by the certifying authority to copy or retain the examination or any associated reference materials described in paragraph (a)(2)(ix) of this section.


(ix) The only reference materials used during the examination are those that are approved by the certifying authority and provided and collected by the proctor.


(x) Reference materials provided to examinees are reviewed after the examination is complete to ensure that no portion of the reference material has been removed, altered, or destroyed.


(xi) The proctor reports to the certifying authority any examination administration inconsistencies or irregularities, including but not limited to cheating, use of unauthorized materials, and attempts to copy or retain the examination.


(xii) The examination must be conducted in accordance with any other requirements of the certifying authority related to examination administration.


(xiii) The certifying authority must notify each candidate of the results of his or her examination.


(b) *Additional methods of determining competency.* In addition to written examination requirements for determining competency, a certifying authority may employ additional methods for determining applicator competency, such as performance testing. Any such additional methods must be specified in the certifying authority's Agency-approved certification plan and must comply with the applicable standards in paragraph (a) of this section.


(c) *Core standards for all categories of certified commercial applicators.* Persons seeking certification as commercial applicators must demonstrate practical knowledge of the principles and practices of pest control and proper and effective use of restricted use pesticides by passing a written examination. Written examinations for all commercial applicators must address all of the following areas of competency:


(1) *Label and labeling comprehension.* Familiarity with pesticide labels and labeling and their functions, including all of the following:


(i) The general format and terminology of pesticide labels and labeling.


(ii) Understanding instructions, warnings, terms, symbols, and other information commonly appearing on pesticide labels and labeling.


(iii) Understanding that it is a violation of Federal law to use any registered pesticide in a manner inconsistent with its labeling.


(iv) Understanding labeling requirements that a certified applicator must be physically present at the site of the application.


(v) Understanding labeling requirements for supervising noncertified applicators working under the direct supervision of a certified applicator.


(vi) Understanding that applicators must comply with all use restrictions and directions for use contained in pesticide labels and labeling, including being certified in the certification category appropriate to the type and site of the application.


(vii) Understanding the meaning of product classification as either general or restricted use and that a product may be unclassified.


(viii) Understanding and complying with product-specific notification requirements.


(ix) Recognizing and understanding the difference between mandatory and advisory labeling language.


(2) *Safety.* Measures to avoid or minimize adverse health effects, including all of the following:


(i) Understanding the different natures of the risks of acute toxicity and chronic toxicity, as well as the long-term effects of pesticides.


(ii) Understanding that a pesticide's risk is a function of exposure and the pesticide's toxicity.


(iii) Recognition of likely ways in which dermal, inhalation, and oral exposure may occur.


(iv) Common types and causes of pesticide mishaps.


(v) Precautions to prevent injury to applicators and other individuals in or near treated areas.


(vi) Need for, and proper use of, protective clothing and personal protective equipment.


(vii) Symptoms of pesticide poisoning.


(viii) First aid and other procedures to be followed in case of a pesticide mishap.


(ix) Proper identification, storage, transport, handling, mixing procedures, and disposal methods for pesticides and used pesticide containers, including precautions to be taken to prevent children from having access to pesticides and pesticide containers.


(3) *Environment.* The potential environmental consequences of the use and misuse of pesticides, including the influence of all of the following:


(i) Weather and other indoor and outdoor climatic conditions.


(ii) Types of terrain, soil, or other substrate.


(iii) Presence of fish, wildlife, and other non-target organisms.


(iv) Drainage patterns.


(4) *Pests.* The proper identification and effective control of pests, including all of the following:


(i) The importance of correctly identifying target pests and selecting the proper pesticide product(s) for effective pest control.


(ii) Verifying that the labeling does not prohibit the use of the product to control the target pest(s).


(5) *Pesticides.* Characteristics of pesticides, including all of the following:


(i) Types of pesticides.


(ii) Types of formulations.


(iii) Compatibility, synergism, persistence, and animal and plant toxicity of the formulations.


(iv) Hazards and residues associated with use.


(v) Factors that influence effectiveness or lead to problems such as pesticide resistance.


(vi) Dilution procedures.


(6) *Equipment.* Application equipment, including all of the following:


(i) Types of equipment and advantages and limitations of each type.


(ii) Use, maintenance, and calibration procedures.


(7) *Application methods.* Selecting appropriate application methods, including all of the following:


(i) Methods used to apply various forms and formulations of pesticides.


(ii) Knowledge of which application method to use in a given situation and that use of a fumigant, aerial application, sodium cyanide, or sodium fluoroacetate requires additional certification.


(iii) How selection of application method and use of a pesticide may result in proper use, unnecessary or ineffective use, and misuse.


(iv) Prevention of drift and pesticide loss into the environment.


(8) *Laws and regulations.* Knowledge of all applicable State, Tribal, and Federal laws and regulations.


(9) *Responsibilities of supervisors of noncertified applicators.* Knowledge of the responsibilities of certified applicators supervising noncertified applicators, including all of the following:


(i) Understanding and complying with requirements in § 171.201 of this part for certified commercial applicators who supervise noncertified applicators using restricted use pesticides.


(ii) The recordkeeping requirements of pesticide safety training for noncertified applicators who use restricted use pesticides under the direct supervision of a certified applicator.


(iii) Providing use-specific instructions to noncertified applicators using restricted use pesticides under the direct supervision of a certified applicator.


(iv) Explaining pertinent State, Tribal, and Federal laws and regulations to noncertified applicators who use restricted use pesticides under the direct supervision of a certified applicator.


(10) *Professionalism.* Understanding the importance of all of the following:


(i) Maintaining chemical security for restricted use pesticides.


(ii) How to communicate information about pesticide exposures and risks with customers and the public.


(iii) Appropriate product stewardship for certified applicators.


(d) *Specific standards of competency for each category of commercial applicators.* In addition to satisfying the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section, to be certified as commercial applicators, persons must demonstrate through written examinations practical knowledge of the principles and practices of pest control and proper and effective use of restricted use pesticides for each category for which they intend to apply restricted use pesticides, except as provided at §§ 171.303(a)(4) and 171.305(a)(5). The minimum competency standards for each category are listed in paragraphs (d)(1) through (15) of this section. Examinations for each category of certification listed in § 171.101 must be based on the standards of competency specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (15) of this section and examples of problems and situations appropriate to the particular category in which the applicator is seeking certification.


(1) *Agricultural pest control.*

(i) *Crop pest control.* Applicators must demonstrate practical knowledge of crops, grasslands, and non-crop agricultural lands and the specific pests of those areas on which they may be using restricted use pesticides. The importance of such competency is amplified by the extensive areas involved, the quantities of pesticides needed, and the ultimate use of many commodities as food and feed. The required knowledge includes pre-harvest intervals, restricted entry intervals, phytotoxicity, potential for environmental contamination such as soil and water problems, non-target injury, and other problems resulting from the use of restricted use pesticides in agricultural areas. The required knowledge also includes the potential for phytotoxicity due to a wide variety of plants to be protected, for drift, for persistence beyond the intended period of pest control, and for non-target exposures.


(ii) *Livestock pest control.* Applicators must demonstrate practical knowledge of such animals and their associated pests. The required knowledge includes specific pesticide toxicity and residue potential, and the hazards associated with such factors as formulation, application techniques, age of animals, stress, and extent of treatment.


(2) *Forest pest control.* Applicators must demonstrate practical knowledge of types of forests, forest nurseries, and seed production within the jurisdiction of the certifying authority and the pests involved. The required knowledge includes the cyclic occurrence of certain pests and specific population dynamics as a basis for programming pesticide applications, the relevant organisms causing harm and their vulnerability to the pesticides to be applied, how to determine when pesticide use is proper, selection of application method and proper use of application equipment to minimize non-target exposures, and appropriate responses to meteorological factors and adjacent land use. The required knowledge also includes the potential for phytotoxicity due to a wide variety of plants to be protected, for drift, for persistence beyond the intended period of pest control, and for non-target exposures.


(3) *Ornamental and turf pest control.* Applicators must demonstrate practical knowledge of pesticide problems associated with the production and maintenance of ornamental plants and turf. The required knowledge includes the potential for phytotoxicity due to a wide variety of plants to be protected, for drift, for persistence beyond the intended period of pest control, and for non-target exposures. Because of the frequent proximity of human habitations to application activities, applicators in this category must demonstrate practical knowledge of application methods that will minimize or prevent hazards to humans, pets, and other domestic animals.


(4) *Seed treatment.* Applicators must demonstrate practical knowledge including recognizing types of seeds to be treated, the effects of carriers and surface active agents on pesticide binding and germination, the hazards associated with handling, sorting and mixing, and misuse of treated seed, the importance of proper application techniques to avoid harm to non-target organisms, and the proper disposal of unused treated seeds.


(5) *Aquatic pest control.* Applicators must demonstrate practical knowledge of the characteristics of various aquatic use situations, the potential for adverse effects on non-target plants, fish, birds, beneficial insects and other organisms in the immediate aquatic environment and downstream, and the principles of limited area application.


(6) *Right-of-way pest control.* Applicators must demonstrate practical knowledge of the types of environments (terrestrial and aquatic) traversed by rights-of-way, recognition of target pests, and techniques to minimize non-target exposure, runoff, drift, and excessive foliage destruction. The required knowledge also includes the potential for phytotoxicity due to a wide variety of plants and pests to be controlled, and for persistence beyond the intended period of pest control.


(7) *Industrial, institutional, and structural pest control.* Applicators must demonstrate a practical knowledge of industrial, institutional, and structural pests, including recognizing those pests and signs of their presence, their habitats, their life cycles, biology, and behavior as it may be relevant to problem identification and control. Applicators must demonstrate practical knowledge of types of formulations appropriate for control of industrial, institutional and structural pests, and methods of application that avoid contamination of food, minimize damage to and contamination of areas treated, minimize acute and chronic exposure of people and pets, and minimize environmental impacts of outdoor applications.


(8) *Public health pest control.* Applicators must demonstrate practical knowledge of pests that are important vectors of disease, including recognizing the pests and signs of their presence, their habitats, their life cycles, biology and behavior as it may be relevant to problem identification and control. The required knowledge also includes how to minimize damage to and contamination of areas treated, acute and chronic exposure of people and pets, and non-target exposures.


(9) *Regulatory pest control.* Applicators must demonstrate practical knowledge of regulated pests, applicable laws relating to quarantine and other regulation of regulated pests, and the potential impact on the environment of restricted use pesticides used in suppression and eradication programs. They must demonstrate knowledge of factors influencing introduction, spread, and population dynamics of regulated pests.


(10) *Demonstration and research.* Applicators must demonstrate practical knowledge of the potential problems, pests, and population levels reasonably expected to occur in a demonstration situation and the effects of restricted use pesticides on target and non-target organisms. In addition, they must demonstrate competency in each pest control category applicable to their demonstrations.


(11) *Sodium cyanide predator control.* Applicators must demonstrate practical knowledge of mammalian predator pests, including recognizing those pests and signs of their presence, their habitats, their life cycles, biology, and behavior as it may be relevant to pest identification and control. Applicators must demonstrate comprehension of all laws and regulations applicable to the use of mechanical ejection devices for sodium cyanide, including the restrictions on the use of sodium cyanide products ordered by the EPA Administrator. . Applicators must also demonstrate practical knowledge and understanding of all of the specific use restrictions for sodium cyanide devices, including safe handling and proper placement of the capsules and device, proper use of the antidote kit, notification to medical personnel before use of the device, conditions of and restrictions on when and where devices can be used, requirements to consult U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service maps before use to avoid affecting endangered species, maximum density of devices, provisions for supervising and monitoring applicators, required information exchange in locations where more than one agency is authorized to place devices, and specific requirements for recordkeeping, monitoring, field posting, proper storage, and disposal of damaged or used sodium cyanide capsules.


(12) *Sodium fluoroacetate predator control.* Applicators must demonstrate practical knowledge of mammalian predator pests, including recognizing those pests and signs of their presence, their habitats, their life cycles, biology, and behavior as it may be relevant to pest identification and control. Applicators must demonstrate comprehension of all laws and regulations applicable to the use of sodium fluoroacetate products, including the restrictions on the use of sodium fluoroacetate products ordered by the EPA Administrator. Applicators must also demonstrate practical knowledge and understanding of the specific use restrictions for sodium fluoroacetate in the livestock protection collar, including where and when sodium fluoroacetate products can be used, safe handling and placement of collars, and practical treatment of sodium fluoroacetate poisoning in humans and domestic animals. Applicators must also demonstrate practical knowledge and understanding of specific requirements for field posting, monitoring, recordkeeping, proper storage of collars, disposal of punctured or leaking collars, disposal of contaminated animal remains, vegetation, soil, and clothing, and reporting of suspected and actual poisoning, mishap, or injury to threatened or endangered species, humans, domestic animals, or non-target wild animals.


(13) *Soil fumigation.* Applicators must demonstrate practical knowledge of the pest problems and pest control practices associated with performing soil fumigation applications, including all the following:


(i) *Label and labeling comprehension.* Familiarity with the pesticide labels and labeling for products used to perform soil fumigation, including all of the following:


(A) Labeling requirements specific to soil fumigants.


(B) Requirements for certified applicators of fumigants, fumigant handlers and permitted fumigant handler activities, and the safety information that certified applicators must provide to noncertified applicators using fumigants under their direct supervision.


(C) Entry-restricted periods for tarped and untarped field application scenarios.


(D) Recordkeeping requirements.


(E) Labeling provisions unique to fumigant products containing certain active ingredients.


(ii) *Safety.* Measures to minimize adverse health effects, including all of the following:


(A) Understanding how certified applicators, noncertified applicators using fumigants under direct supervision of certified applicators, field workers, and bystanders can become exposed to fumigants.


(B) Common problems and mistakes that can result in direct exposure to fumigants.


(C) Signs and symptoms of human exposure to fumigants.


(D) Air concentrations of a fumigant that require that applicators wear respirators or exit the work area entirely.


(E) Steps to take if a fumigant applicator experiences sensory irritation.


(F) Understanding air monitoring, when it is required, and where and when to take samples.


(G) Buffer zones, including procedures for buffer zone monitoring and who is permitted to be in a buffer zone.


(H) First aid measures to take in the event of exposure to a soil fumigant.


(I) Labeling requirements for transportation, storage, spill clean up, and emergency response for soil fumigants, including safe disposal of containers and contaminated soil, and management of empty containers.


(iii) *Soil fumigant chemical characteristics.* Characteristics of soil fumigants, including all of the following:


(A) Chemical characteristics of soil fumigants.


(B) Specific human exposure concerns for soil fumigants.


(C) How soil fumigants change from a liquid or solid to a gas.


(D) How soil fumigants disperse in the application zone.


(E) Compatibility concerns for tanks, hoses, tubing, and other equipment.


(iv) *Application.* Selecting appropriate application methods and timing, including all of the following:


(A) Application methods, including but not limited to water-run and non-water- run applications, and equipment commonly used for each soil fumigant.


(B) Site characteristics that influence fumigant exposure.


(C) Understanding temperature inversions and their impact on soil fumigant application.


(D) Weather conditions that could impact timing of soil fumigant application, such as air stability, air temperature, humidity, and wind currents, and labeling statements limiting applications during specific weather conditions.


(E) Conducting pre-application inspection of application equipment.


(F) Understanding the purpose and methods of soil sealing, including the factors that determine which soil sealing method to use.


(G) Understanding the use of tarps, including the range of tarps available, how to seal tarps, and labeling requirements for tarp removal, perforation, and repair.


(H) Calculating the amount of product required for a specific treatment area.


(I) Understanding the basic techniques for calibrating soil fumigant application equipment.


(v) *Soil and pest factors.* Soil and pest factors that influence fumigant activity, including all of the following:


(A) Influence of soil factors on fumigant volatility and movement within the soil profile.


(B) Factors that influence gaseous movement through the soil profile and into the air.


(C) Soil characteristics, including how soil characteristics affect the success of a soil fumigant application, assessing soil moisture, and correcting for soil characteristics that could hinder a successful soil fumigant application.


(D) Identifying pests causing the damage and verifying they can be controlled with soil fumigation.


(E) Understanding the relationship between pest density and application rate.


(F) The importance of proper application depth and timing.


(vi) *Personal protective equipment.* Understanding what personal protective equipment is necessary and how to use it properly, including all of the following:


(A) Following labeling directions for required personal protective equipment.


(B) Selecting, inspecting, using, caring for, replacing, and disposing of personal protective equipment.


(C) Understanding the types of respirators required when using specific soil fumigants and how to use them properly, including medical evaluation, fit testing, and required replacement of cartridges and canisters.


(D) Labeling requirements and other laws applicable to medical evaluation for respirator use, fit tests, training, and recordkeeping.


(vii) *Fumigant management plans and post-application summaries.* Information about fumigant management plans, including all of the following:


(A) When a fumigant management plan must be in effect, how long it must be kept on file, where it must be kept during the application, and who must have access to it.


(B) The elements of a fumigant management plan and resources available to assist the applicator in preparing a fumigant management plan.


(C) The person responsible for verifying that a fumigant management plan is accurate.


(D) The elements, purpose and content of a post-application summary, who must prepare it, and when it must be completed.


(viii) *Buffer zones and posting requirements.* Understanding buffer zones and posting requirements, including all of the following:


(A) Buffer zones and the buffer zone period.


(B) Identifying who is allowed in a buffer zone during the buffer zone period and who is prohibited from being in a buffer zone during the buffer zone period.


(C) Using the buffer zone table from the labeling to determine the size of the buffer zone.


(D) Factors that determine the buffer zone credits for application scenarios and calculating buffer zones using credits.


(E) Distinguishing buffer zone posting and treated area posting, including the pre-application and post-application posting timeframes for each.


(F) Proper choice and placement of warning signs.


(14) *Non-soil fumigation.* Applicators must demonstrate practical knowledge of the pest problems and pest control practices associated with performing fumigation applications of restricted use pesticides to sites other than soil, including all the following:


(i) *Label & labeling comprehension.* Familiarity with the pesticide labels and labeling for products used to perform non-soil fumigation, including labeling requirements specific to non-soil fumigants.


(ii) *Safety.* Measures to minimize adverse health effects, including all of the following:


(A) Understanding how certified applicators, noncertified applicators using fumigants under direct supervision of certified applicators, and bystanders can become exposed to fumigants.


(B) Common problems and mistakes that can result in direct exposure to fumigants.


(C) Signs and symptoms of human exposure to fumigants.


(D) Air concentrations of a fumigant that require applicators to wear respirators or to exit the work area entirely.


(E) Steps to take if a fumigant applicator experiences sensory irritation.


(F) Understanding air monitoring, when it is required, and where and when to take samples.


(G) Buffer zones, including procedures for buffer zone monitoring and who is permitted to be in a buffer zone.


(H) First aid measures to take in the event of exposure to a fumigant.


(I) Labeling requirements for transportation, storage, spill clean up, and emergency response for non-soil fumigants, including safe disposal of containers and contaminated materials, and management of empty containers.


(iii) *Non-soil fumigant chemical characteristics.* Characteristics of non-soil fumigants, including all of the following:


(A) Chemical characteristics of non-soil fumigants.


(B) Specific human exposure concerns for non-soil fumigants.


(C) How fumigants change from a liquid or solid to a gas.


(D) How fumigants disperse in the application zone.


(E) Compatibility concerns for tanks, hoses, tubing, and other equipment.


(iv) *Application.* Selecting appropriate application methods and timing, including all of the following:


(A) Application methods and equipment commonly used for non-soil fumigation.


(B) Site characteristics that influence fumigant exposure.


(C) Conditions that could impact timing of non-soil fumigant application, such as air stability, air temperature, humidity, and wind currents, and labeling statements limiting applications under specific conditions.


(D) Conducting pre-application inspection of application equipment and the site to be fumigated.


(E) Understanding the purpose and methods of sealing the area to be fumigated, including the factors that determine which sealing method to use.


(F) Calculating the amount of product required for a specific treatment area.


(G) Understanding the basic techniques for calibrating non-soil fumigant application equipment.


(H) Understanding when and how to conduct air monitoring and when it is required.


(v) *Pest factors.* Pest factors that influence fumigant activity, including all of the following:


(A) Influence of pest factors on fumigant volatility.


(B) Factors that influence gaseous movement through the area being fumigated and into the air.


(C) Identifying pests causing the damage and verifying they can be controlled with fumigation.


(D) Understanding the relationship between pest density and application rate.


(E) The importance of proper application rate and timing.


(vi) *Personal protective equipment.* Understanding what personal protective equipment is necessary and how to use it properly, including all of the following:


(A) Following labeling directions for required personal protective equipment.


(B) Selecting, inspecting, using, caring for, replacing, and disposing of personal protective equipment.


(C) Understanding the types of respirators required when using specific non-soil fumigants and how to use them properly, including medical evaluation, fit testing, and required replacement of cartridges and canisters.


(D) Labeling requirements and other laws applicable to medical evaluation for respirator use, fit tests, training, and recordkeeping.


(vii) *Fumigant management plans and post-application summaries.* Information about fumigant management plans and when they are required, including all of the following:


(A) When a fumigant management plan must be in effect, how long it must be kept on file, where it must be kept during the application, and who must have access to it.


(B) The elements of a fumigant management plan and resources available to assist the applicator in preparing a fumigant management plan.


(C) The person responsible for verifying that a fumigant management plan is accurate.


(D) The elements, purpose and content of a post-application summary, who must prepare it, and when it must be completed.


(viii) *Posting requirements.* Understanding posting requirements, including all of the following:


(A) Understanding who is allowed in an area being fumigated or after fumigation and who is prohibited from being in such areas.


(B) Distinguishing fumigant labeling-required posting and treated area posting, including the pre-application and post-application posting timeframes for each.


(C) Proper choice and placement of warning signs.


(15) *Aerial pest control.* Applicators must demonstrate practical knowledge of the pest problems and pest control practices associated with performing aerial application of restricted use pesticides, including all the following:


(i) *Labeling.* Labeling requirements and restrictions specific to aerial application of pesticides including:


(A) Spray volumes.


(B) Buffers and no-spray zones.


(C) Weather conditions specific to wind and inversions.


(ii) *Application equipment.* Understand how to choose and maintain aerial application equipment, including all of the following:


(A) The importance of inspecting application equipment to ensure it is in proper operating condition prior to beginning an application.


(B) Selecting proper nozzles to ensure appropriate pesticide dispersal and to minimize drift.


(C) Knowledge of the components of an aerial pesticide application system, including pesticide hoppers, tanks, pumps, and types of nozzles.


(D) Interpreting a nozzle flow rate chart.


(E) Determining the number of nozzles for intended pesticide output using nozzle flow rate chart, aircraft speed, and swath width.


(F) How to ensure nozzles are placed to compensate for uneven dispersal due to uneven airflow from wingtip vortices, helicopter rotor turbulence, and aircraft propeller turbulence.


(G) Where to place nozzles to produce the appropriate droplet size.


(H) How to maintain the application system in good repair, including pressure gauge accuracy, filter cleaning according to schedule, and checking nozzles for excessive wear.


(I) How to calculate required and actual flow rates.


(J) How to verify flow rate using fixed timing, open timing, known distance, or a flow meter.


(K) When to adjust and calibrate application equipment.


(iii) *Application considerations.* The applicator must demonstrate knowledge of factors to consider before and during application, including all of the following:


(A) Weather conditions that could impact application by affecting aircraft engine power, take-off distance, and climb rate, or by promoting spray droplet evaporation.


(B) How to determine wind velocity, direction, and air density at the application site.


(C) The potential impact of thermals and temperature inversions on aerial pesticide application.


(iv) *Minimizing drift.* The applicator must demonstrate knowledge of methods to minimize off-target pesticide movement, including all of the following:


(A) How to determine drift potential of a product using a smoke generator.


(B) How to evaluate vertical and horizontal smoke plumes to assess wind direction, speed, and concentration.


(C) Selecting techniques that minimize pesticide movement out of the area to be treated.


(D) Documenting special equipment configurations or flight patterns used to reduce off-target pesticide drift.


(v) *Performing aerial application.* The applicator must demonstrate competency in performing an aerial pesticide application, including all of the following:


(A) Selecting a flight altitude that minimizes streaking and off-target pesticide drift.


(B) Choosing a flight pattern that ensures applicator and bystander safety and proper application.


(C) The importance of engaging and disengaging spray precisely when entering and exiting a predetermined swath pattern.


(D) Tools available to mark swaths, such as global positioning systems and flags.


(E) Recordkeeping requirements for aerial pesticide applications including application conditions if applicable.


(e) *Exceptions.* The requirements in § 171.103(a)-(d) of this part do not apply to the following persons:


(1) Persons conducting laboratory research involving restricted use pesticides.


(2) Doctors of Medicine and Doctors of Veterinary Medicine applying restricted use pesticides to patients during the course of the ordinary practice of those professions.




