# § 1.367(a)-1T   Transfers to foreign corporations subject to section 367(a): In general (temporary).

(a) [Reserved]


(b) *General rules*—


(b)(1) through (3) [Reserved]


(4) *Character, source, and adjustments*—(i) *In general.* If a U.S. person is required to recognize gain under section 367 upon a transfer of property to a foreign corporation, then—


(A) [Reserved]


(B) [Reserved] For further guidance see § 1.367(a)-1(b)(4)(i)(B).


(C) [Reserved] For further guidance see § 1.367(a)-1(b)(4)(i)(C).


(b)(4)(ii) through (5) [Reserved]


(c) *Transfers described in section 367(a)(1)*—(1) *In general.* A transfer described in section 367(a)(1) is any transfer of property by a U.S. person to a foreign corporation pursuant to an exchange described in section 332, 351, 354, 355, 356, or 361. Section 367(a)(1) applies to such a transfer whether it is made directly, indirectly, or constructively. Indirect or constructive transfers that are described in section 367(a)(1) include the transfers described in subparagraphs (2) through (7) of this paragraph (c). 


(2) *Indirect transfers in certain reorganizations.* [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.367(a)-3(d).


(3) *Indirect transfers involving partnerships and interests therein*—(i) *Transfer by partnership treated as transfer by partners*—(A) *In general.* If a partnership (whether foreign or domestic) transfers property to a foreign corporation in an exchange described in section 367(a)(1), then a U.S. person that is a partner in the partnership shall be treated as having transferred a proportionate share of the property in an exchange described in section 367(a)(1). A U.S. person's proportionate share of partnership property shall be determined under the rules and principles of sections 701 through 761 and the regulations thereunder. The rule of this paragraph (c)(3)(i)(A) is illustrated by the following example.


(B) *Special adjustments to basis.* If a U.S. person is treated under the rule of this paragraph (c)(3)(i) as having transferred a proportionate share of the property of a partnership in an exchange described in section 367(a), and is therefore required to recognize gain upon the transfer, then—


(*1*) The U.S. person's basis in the partnership shall be increased by the amount of gain recognized by him;


(*2*) Solely for purposes of determining the basis of the partnership in the stock of the transferee foreign corporation, the U.S. person shall be treated as having newly acquired an interest in the partnership (for an amount equal to the gain recognized), permitting the partnership to make an optional adjustment to basis pursuant to sections 743 and 754; and


(*3*) The transferee foreign corporation's basis in the property acquired from the partnership shall be increased by the amount of gain recognized by U.S. persons under this paragraph (c)(3)(i).


(ii) *Transfer of partnership interest treated as transfer of proportionate share of assets*—


(A) [Reserved]


(B) *Special adjustments to basis.* If a U.S. person is treated under the rule of paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(A) of this section as having transferred a proportionate share of the property of a partnership in an exchange described in section 367(a), and is therefore required to recognize gain upon the transfer, then—


(*1*) The U.S. person's basis in the stock of the transferee foreign corporation shall be increased by the amount of gain so recognized by that person;


(*2*) The transferee foreign corporation's basis in the transferred partnership interest shall be increased by the amount of gain recognized by the U.S. person; and


(*3*) Solely for purposes of determining the partnership's basis in the property held by it, the U.S. person shall be treated as having newly acquired an interest in the partnership (for an amount equal to the gain recognized), permitting the partnership to make an optional adjustment to basis pursuant to sections 743 and 754.


(C) *Limited partnership interest.* The transfer by a U.S. person of an interest in a partnership shall not be subject to the rules of paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(A) and (B) if—


(*1*) The interest transferred is a limited partnership interest; and


(*2*) Such interest is regularly traded on an established securities market.


(D) *Regularly traded on an established securities market*—(*1*) *Established securities market.* For purposes of this paragraph (c)(3)(ii), an established securities market is—


(*i*) A national securities exchange which is registered under section 6 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78f);


(*ii*) A foreign national securities exchange which is officially recognized, sanctioned, or supervised by governmental authority; and


(*iii*) An over-the-counter market. An over-the-counter market is any market reflected by the existence of an inter-dealer quotation system. An inter-dealer quotation system is any system of general circulation to brokers and dealers which regularly disseminates quotations of stock and securities by identified brokers or dealers, other than by quotation sheets which are prepared and distributed by a broker or dealer in the regular course of business and which contain only quotations of such broker or dealer.


(*2*) *Regularly traded.* A class of interests that is traded on an established securities market is considered to be regularly traded if it is regularly quoted by brokers or dealers making a market in such interests. A class of interests shall be presumed to be regularly traded if the entity has a total of 500 or more interest-holders.


(4) *Transfers by trusts and estates*—(i) *In general.* For purposes of section 367(a), a transfer of property by an estate or trust shall be treated as a transfer by the entity itself and not as an indirect transfer by its beneficiaries. Thus, a transfer of property by a foreign trust or estate (as defined in section 7701(a)(31)) is not described in section 367(a)(1), regardless of whether the beneficiaries of the trust or estate are U.S. persons. Similarly, a transfer of property by a domestic trust or estate may be described in section 367(a)(1), regardless of whether the beneficiaries of the trust or estate are foreign persons. 


(ii) *Grantor trusts.* A transfer of a portion or all of the assets of a foreign or domestic trust to a foreign corporation in an exchange described in section 367(a)(1) is considered a transfer by any U.S. person who is treated as the owner of any such portion or all of the assets of the trust under sections 671 through 679. 


(5) *Termination of election under section 1504(d).* Section 367(A) applies to the constructive reorganization and transfer of property from a domestic corporation to a foreign corporation that occurs upon the termination of an election under section 1504(d), which permits the treatment of certain contiguous country corporations as domestic corporations. The rule of this paragraph (c)(5) is illustrated by the following example.


(6) *Changes in classification of an entity.* If a foreign entity is classified as an entity other than an association taxable as a corporation for United States tax purposes, and subsequently a change is made in the governing documents, articles, or agreements of the entity so that the entity is thereafter classified as an association taxable as a corporation, the change in classification is considered a transfer of property to a foreign corporation in connection with an exchange described in section 351. For purposes of section 367(a)(1), the transfer of property is considered as made by the persons determined under the rules set forth in paragraph (c)(3) of this section with respect to partnerships, and paragraph (c)(4)(i) or (ii), with respect to trusts and estates, and the rules of such paragraphs apply determining whether a transfer described in section 367(a)(1) has been made. 


(7) *Contributions to capital.* For rules with respect to the treatment of a contribution to the capital of a foreign corporation as a transfer described in section 367(a)(1), see section 367(c)(2) and the regulations thereunder.


(d) introductory text through (d)(2) [Reserved]


(3) [Reserved] For further guidance, see § 1.367(a)-1(d)(3).


(4) through (6) [Reserved]


(e) [Reserved]. For further guidance, *see* § 1.367(a)-1(e).


(f) [Reserved]. For further guidance, *see* § 1.367(a)-1(f).


(g) *Effective date of certain section*—


(1) *In general.* Except as specifically provided to the contrary elsewhere in these sections, §§ 1.367(a)-1T through 1.367(a)-6T apply to transfers occurring after December 31, 1984. 


(2) *Private rulings.* The taxpayer may rely on a private ruling under section 367(a) received by him before June 16, 1986. 


(3) *Certain indirect transfers.* Sections 1.367(a)-1T(c)(2)(i) and (iii) and 1.367(a)-1T(c)(3) apply to transfers made after June 16, 1986. For transfers made before that date, see 26 CFR 1.367(a)-1(b) (revised as of April 1, 1986). 


(4) [Reserved] For further guidance see § 1.367(a)-1(g)(4).



---

[N] [T.D. 8087, 51 FR 17938, May 16, 1986, as amended by T.D. 8280, 55 FR 1408, Jan. 16, 1990; T.D. 8770, 63 FR 33555, June 19, 1998; T.D. 9441, 74 FR 348, Jan. 5, 2009; T.D. 9568, 76 FR 80087, Dec. 22, 2011; T.D. 9614, 78 FR 17031, Mar. 19, 2013; T.D. 9739, 80 FR 56912, Sept. 21, 2015; T.D. 9803, 81 FR 91024, Dec. 16, 2016]




