# § 493.923   Syphilis serology.

(a) *Program content and frequency of challenge.* To be approved for proficiency testing for syphilis serology, a program must provide a minimum of five samples per testing event. There must be at least three testing events at approximately equal intervals per year. The samples may be provided through mailed shipments. An annual program must include samples that cover the full range of reactivity from highly reactive to non-reactive.


(b) *Evaluation of test performance.* HHS approves only those programs that assess the accuracy of a laboratory's responses in accordance with paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section. 


(1) To determine the accuracy of a laboratory's response for qualitative and quantitative syphilis tests, the program must compare the laboratory's response with the response that reflects agreement of either 80 percent or more of 10 or more referee laboratories or 80 percent or more of all participating laboratories. Both methods must be attempted before the program can choose to not grade a PT sample. 


(2) For quantitative syphilis tests, the program must determine the correct response for each method by the distance of the response from the target value. After the target value has been established for each response, the appropriateness of the response must be determined by using fixed criteria. The criterion for acceptable performance for quantitative syphilis serology tests is the target value ±1 dilution.


(3) The criterion for acceptable performance for qualitative syphilis serology tests is reactive or nonreactive.


(4) To determine the overall testing event score, the number of correct responses must be averaged using the following formula:



---

[N] [57 FR 7151, Feb. 28, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 5229, Jan. 19, 1993; 68 FR 3702, Jan. 24, 2003; 87 FR 41236, July 11, 2022]




