# § 108.720   Small Businesses that may be ineligible for financing.

(a) *Relenders or reinvestors.* You are not permitted to finance any business that is a relender or reinvestor. Relenders or reinvestors are businesses whose primary business activity involves, directly or indirectly, providing funds to others, purchasing debt obligations, factoring, or long-term leasing of equipment with no provision for maintenance or repair.


(b) *Passive Businesses.* You are not permitted to finance a passive business.


(1) *Definition.* A business is passive if:


(i) It is not engaged in a regular and continuous business operation (for purposes of this paragraph (b), the mere receipt of payments such as dividends, rents, lease payments, or royalties is not considered a regular and continuous business operation); or


(ii) Its employees are not carrying on the majority of day to day operations, and the company does not provide effective control and supervision, on a day to day basis, over persons employed under contract; or


(iii) It passes through substantially all of the proceeds of the Financing to another entity.


(2) *Exception for pass-through of proceeds to subsidiary.* With the prior written approval of SBA, you may finance a passive business if it is a Small Business and it passes substantially all the proceeds through to one or more subsidiary companies, each of which is an eligible Small Business that is not passive. For the purpose of this paragraph (b) (2), “subsidiary company” means a company in which at least 50 percent of the outstanding voting securities are owned by the Financed passive business.


(3) *Exception for certain Partnership NMVC companies.* With the prior written approval of SBA, if you are a Partnership NMVC Company, you may form one or more wholly owned corporations in accordance with this paragraph (b) (3). The sole purpose of such corporation(s) must be to provide Financing to one or more eligible, unincorporated Small Businesses. You may form such corporation(s) only if a direct Financing to such Small Businesses would cause any of your investors to incur unrelated business taxable income under section 511 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (26 U.S.C. 511). Your investment of funds in such corporation(s) will not constitute a violation of § 108.730(a).


(c) *Real Estate Businesses.* (1) You are not permitted to finance:


(i) Any business classified under subsector 5311 (Lessors of Real Estate) of the NAICS Manual; or


(ii) Any business listed under subsector 5312 (Offices of Real Estate Agents and Brokers) unless at least 80 percent of the revenue is derived from non-Affiliate sources.


(2) You are not permitted to finance a business, regardless of NAICS classification, if the Financing is to be used to acquire or refinance real property, unless the Small Business:


(i) Is acquiring an existing property and will use at least 51 percent of the usable square footage for an eligible business purpose; or


(ii) Is building or renovating a building and will use at least 67 percent of the usable square footage for an eligible business purpose; or


(iii) Occupies the subject property and uses at least 67 percent of the usable square footage for an eligible business purpose.


(d) *Project Financing.* You are not permitted to finance a business if:


(1) The assets of the business are to be reduced or consumed, generally without replacement, as the life of the business progresses, and the nature of the business requires that a stream of cash payments be made to the business's financing sources, on a basis associated with the continuing sale of assets. Examples include real estate development projects and oil and gas wells; or


(2) The primary purpose of the Financing is to fund production of a single item or defined limited number of items, generally over a defined production period, and such production will constitute the majority of the activities of the Small Business. Examples include motion pictures and electric generating plants.


(e) *Farm land purchases.* You are not permitted to finance the acquisition of farmland. Farmland means land, which is or is intended to be used for agricultural or forestry purposes, such as the production of food, fiber, or wood, or is so taxed or zoned.


(f) *Public interest.* You are not permitted to finance any business if the proceeds are to be used for purposes contrary to the public interest, including but not limited to activities which are in violation of law, or inconsistent with free competitive enterprise.


(g) *Foreign investment*—(1) *General rule.* You are not permitted to finance a business if:


(i) The funds will be used substantially for a foreign operation; or


(ii) At the time of the Financing or within one year thereafter, more than 49 percent of the employees or tangible assets of the Small Business are located outside the United States (unless you can show, to SBA's satisfaction, that the Financing was used for a specific domestic purpose).


(2) *Exception.* This paragraph (g) does not prohibit a Financing used to acquire foreign materials and equipment or foreign property rights for use or sale in the United States.


(h) *Financing NMVC companies or SBICs.* You are not permitted to provide funds, directly or indirectly, that the Small Business will use:


(1) To purchase stock in or provide capital to a NMVC Company or SBIC; or


(2) To repay an indebtedness incurred for the purpose of investing in a NMVC Company or SBIC.




