# § 2203.2   Definitions.

For the purposes of this part:


*Expedited closing procedure* means the simplified procedures described at 5 U.S.C. 552b(d)(4) for announcing and closing certain agency meetings.


*General Counsel* means the General Counsel of the Commission, or any other person designated by the General Counsel to carry out his responsibilities under this part.


*Meeting* means the deliberations of at least two Commissioners, where such deliberations determine or result in the joint conduct or disposition of “official Commission business.” A conference telephone call among the Commissioners is a *meeting* if it otherwise qualifies as a *meeting* under this paragraph. The term does not include:


(a) The deliberations required or permitted under §§ 2203.4(d) and 2203.5, e.g., a discussion of whether to open or close a meeting under this part;


(b) Business that is conducted by circulating written materials sequentially among the Commissioners for their consideration on an individual basis;


(c) A gathering at which the Chairman of the Commission seeks the advice of the other Commissioners on the carrying out of a function that has been vested in the Chairman, by statute or otherwise; or


(d) Informal discussions of the Commissioners that clarify issues and expose varying views but do not effectively predetermine official actions.


*Official Commission business* means matters that are the responsibility of the Commission acting as a collegial body, including the adjudication of litigated cases. The term does not include matters that are the responsibility of the Commission's Chairman. See, e.g., 29 U.S.C. 661(e).


*Regularly-scheduled meetings* means meetings of the Commission that are held at 10:30 a.m. on Thursday of each week, except on legal holidays. The term includes regularly-scheduled meetings that have been rescheduled for another time or day.



---

[N] [50 FR 51679, Dec. 19, 1985, as amended at 73 FR 56492, Sept. 29, 2008; 74 FR 63988, Dec. 7, 2009]




