# ยง 407.55   Eligibility to enroll.

(a) *Basic rule.* Except as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, an individual is eligible to enroll, be deemed enrolled, or reenroll in the Part B-ID benefit if their Part A entitlement ends as described in ยง 406.13(f)(2) of this subchapter.


(b) *Exception.* An individual is not eligible for the Part B-ID benefit if the individual is enrolled in or for any of the following:


(1) A group health plan or group or individual health insurance coverage, as such terms are defined in section 2791 of the Public Health Service Act.


(2) Coverage under the TRICARE for Life program under section 1086(d) of title 10, United States Code.


(3) A State plan (or waiver of such plan) under title XIX and is eligible to receive benefits for immunosuppressive drugs described in section 1836(b) of the Act under such plan (or such waiver).


(4) A State child health plan (or waiver of such plan) under title XXI and is eligible to receive benefits for such drugs under such plan (or such waiver).


(5) The patient enrollment system of the Department of Veterans Affairs established and operated under section 1705 of title 38, United States Code and is either of the following:


(i) Not required to enroll under section 1705 of title 38 to receive immunosuppressive drugs described in section 1836(b) of the Act.


(ii) Otherwise eligible under a provision of title 38, United States Code, other than section 1710 of such title, to receive immunosuppressive drugs described in section 1836(b) of the Act.


(c) *Appeals.* Denials for enrollment in the Part B-ID benefit will be considered an initial determination that is appealable under ยง 405.904(a)(1) of this subchapter.






