# § 1560.101   Request for and transmission of information to TSA.

(a) *Request for information.* (1) Each covered aircraft operator must request the full name, gender, date of birth, and Redress Number for passengers on a covered flight and non-traveling individuals seeking access to an airport sterile area. For reservations made 72 hours prior to the scheduled time of departure for each covered flight, the covered aircraft operator must collect full name, gender, and date of birth for each passenger when the reservation is made or at a time no later than 72 hours prior to the scheduled time of departure of the covered flight. For an individual that makes a reservation for a covered flight within 72 hours of the scheduled time of departure for the covered flight, the covered aircraft operator must collect the individual's full name, date of birth, and gender at the time of reservation. The covered aircraft operator must include the information provided by the individual in response to this request in the SFPD.


(i) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, each covered aircraft operator must begin requesting the information described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section in accordance with its AOIP as approved by TSA.


(ii) An aircraft operator that becomes a covered aircraft operator after the effective date of this part must begin requesting the information on the date it becomes a covered aircraft operator.


(2) Beginning on a date no later than 30 days after being notified in writing by TSA, each covered aircraft operator must additionally request the Known Traveler Number for passengers on a covered flight and non-traveling individuals seeking access to an airport sterile area. The covered aircraft operator must include the Known Traveler Number provided by the passenger in response to this request in the SFPD.


(3) Each covered aircraft operator may not submit SFPD for any passenger on a covered flight who does not provide a full name, date of birth and gender. Each covered aircraft operator may not accept a request for authorization to enter a sterile area from a non-traveling individual who does not provide a full name, date of birth and gender.


(4) Each covered aircraft operator must ensure that each third party that accepts a reservation, or accepts a request for authorization to enter a sterile area, on the covered aircraft operator's behalf complies with the requirements of this section.


(5) If the covered aircraft operator also has an operation of an aircraft that is subject to 49 CFR 1544.101(b) through (i), the covered aircraft operator may submit SFPD for passengers on these operations for watch list matching under this part, provided that the covered aircraft operator—


(i) Collects and transmits the SFPD for the passengers in accordance with this section;


(ii) Provides the privacy notice to the passengers in accordance with 49 CFR 1560.103; and


(iii) Complies with the requirements of 49 CFR 1560.105 and 1560.107.


(b) *Transmission of Secure Flight Passenger Data to TSA.* Beginning on the date provided in a covered aircraft operator's AOIP, the covered aircraft operator must electronically transmit SFPD to TSA, prior to the scheduled departure of each covered flight, in accordance with its AOIP as approved by TSA.


(1) To the extent available, each covered aircraft operator must electronically transmit SFPD to TSA for each passenger on a covered flight.


(2) Each covered aircraft operator must transmit SFPD to TSA prior to the scheduled flight departure time, in accordance with its AOIP as approved by TSA.


(c) *Transmission of non-traveler information to TSA.* Beginning on the date provided in a covered aircraft operator's AOIP, the covered aircraft operator must electronically transmit SFPD to TSA for each non-traveling individual, prior to authorizing access to an airport sterile area.


(d) *Retransmission of information.* Each covered aircraft operator must retransmit to TSA updates to the information listed in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section to reflect most recent changes to that information, as specified in its AOIP as approved by TSA. 




