# § 193.2017   Plans and procedures.

(a) Each operator shall maintain at each LNG plant the plans and procedures required for that plant by this part. The plans and procedures must be available upon request for review and inspection by the Administrator or any State Agency that has submitted a current certification or agreement with respect to the plant under the pipeline safety laws (49 U.S.C. 60101 *et seq.*). In addition, each change to the plans or procedures must be available at the LNG plant for review and inspection within 20 days after the change is made. 


(b) The Associate Administrator or the State Agency that has submitted a current certification under section 5(a) of the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act with respect to the pipeline facility governed by an operator's plans and procedures may, after notice and opportunity for hearing as provided in 49 CFR 190.206 or the relevant State procedures, require the operator to amend its plans and procedures as necessary to provide a reasonable level of safety.


(c) Each operator must review and update the plans and procedures required by this part—


(1) When a component is changed significantly or a new component is installed; and


(2) At intervals not exceeding 27 months, but at least once every 2 calendar years.



---

[N] [Amdt. 193-2, 45 FR 70404, Oct. 23, 1980, as amended by Amdt. 193-7, 56 FR 31090, July 9, 1991; Amdt. 193-10, 61 FR 18517, Apr. 26, 1996; Amdt. 193-18, 69 FR 11336, Mar. 10, 2004; Amdt. 193-24, 78 FR 58915, Sept. 25, 2013]




