# § 404.1595   When we determine that you are not now disabled.

(a) *When we will give you advance notice.* Except in those circumstances described in paragraph (d) of this section, we will give you advance notice when we have determined that you are not now disabled because the information we have conflicts with what you have told us about your disability. If your dependents are receiving benefits on your Social Security number and do not live with you, we will also give them advance notice. To give you advance notice, we will contact you by mail, telephone or in person.


(b) *What the advance notice will tell you.* We will give you a summary of the information we have. We will also tell you why we have determined that you are not now disabled, and will give you a chance to reply. If it is because of—


(1) *Medical reasons.* The advance notice will tell you what the medical information in your file shows;


(2) *Your work activity.* The advance notice will tell you what information we have about the work you are doing or have done, and why this work shows that you are not disabled; or


(3) *Your failure to give us information we need or do what we ask.* The advance notice will tell you what information we need and why we need it or what you have to do and why.


(c) *What you should do if you receive an advance notice.* If you agree with the advance notice, you do not need to take any action. If you desire further information or disagree with what we have told you, you should immediately write or telephone the State agency or the social security office that gave you the advance notice or you may visit any social security office. If you believe you are now disabled, you should tell us why. You may give us any additional or new information, including reports from your doctors, hospitals, employers or others, that you believe we should have. You should send these as soon as possible to the local social security office or to the office that gave you the advance notice. We consider 10 days to be enough time for you to tell us, although we will allow you more time if you need it. You will have to ask for additional time beyond 10 days if you need it.


(d) *When we will not give you advance notice.* We will not give you advance notice when we determine that you are not disabled if—


(1) We recently told you that the information we have shows that you are not now disabled, that we were gathering more information, and that your benefits will stop; or


(2) We are stopping your benefits because you told us you are not now disabled; or


(3) We recently told you that continuing your benefits would probably cause us to overpay you and you asked us to stop your benefits.




