# § 165.792   Regulated Navigation Area; Port of Miami, Miami, Florida.

(a) *Location.* The following area is a Regulated Navigation Area (RNA): All waters of the Port of Miami, from Fisherman's Channel Daybeacon 16 at 25°46.40′ N, 080°10.84′ W proceeding southeasterly through Fisherman's Channel south of Dodge Island to Miami Main Channel Light 15 at 25°45.86′ N. 080°08.24′ W in Government Cut, thence northwesterly through the Main Ship Channel north of Dodge Island to Biscayne Bay Light 50 at 25°46.90′ N, 080°10.88′ W. Additionally, the Meloy Channel from Miami Main Channel Lighted Buoy 16 at 25°46.04′ N, 080°08.41′ W proceeding northwesterly to the MacArthur Causeway Bridge. The coordinates used in this paragraph are based on the World Geodetic System (WGS) 1984.


(b) *Definitions.* As used in this section, slow speed means the speed at which a vessel proceeds when it is fully off plane, completely settled in the water and not creating excessive wake. Due to the different speeds at which vessels of different sizes and configurations may travel while in compliance with this definition, no specific speed is assigned to slow speed. A vessel is not proceeding at slow speed if it is:


(1) On plane;


(2) In the process of coming up on or coming off plane; or


(3) Creating an excessive wake.


(c) *Regulations.* Vessels less than 50 meters entering and transiting through the regulated navigation area shall proceed at a slow speed. Nothing in this section alleviates vessels or operators from complying with all state and local laws in the area including manatee slow speed zones. Nor should anything in this section be construed as conflicting with the requirement to operate at safe speed under the Inland Navigation Rules, (33 CFR chapter I, subchapter E).


(d) *Enforcement.* The Coast Guard may be assisted in the patrol and enforcement of the Regulated Navigation Area by other Federal, State, and local agencies.


(e) *Contact information.* If you observe violations of the regulations in this section, you may notify the COTP via the Coast Guard Sector Miami Command Center via VHF channel 16, by phone at 305-535-4472, or by email at *SectorMiamiWaterways@uscg.mil.*


---

[N] [USCG-2024-0205, 89 FR 106322, Dec. 30, 2024]






