# ยง 315.707   Disabled veterans.

(a) *Eligibility.* (1) Subject to requirements concerning qualifications and probationary period published by the Office, an agency may convert the employment of a disabled veteran who meets the conditions below to career or career-conditional employment from a time-limited appointment of more than 60 days. 


(2) To be eligible for conversion under this paragraph, the veteran must:


(i) Have been retired from active military service with a disability rating of 30 percent or more;


(ii) Have been rated by the Department of Veterans Affairs since 1991 or later, or by a branch of the Armed Forces at any time, as having a compensable service-connected disability of 30 percent or more; or


(iii) Have been so rated by the Department of Veterans Affairs, or by a branch of the Armed Forces, at the time of a qualifying temporary appointment effected within the year immediately preceding, or a term appointment effected within four years immediately preceding, the conversion.


(b) *Tenure on conversion.* (1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, a person converted under paragraph (a) of this section becomes a career-conditional employee. 


(2) A person appointed under paragraph (a) of this section becomes a career employee if excepted from the service requirement for career tenure by ยง 315.201(c).


(c) *Acquisition of competitive status.* A person converted under paragraph (a) of this section acquires a competitive status automatically on completion of probation.



---

[N] [44 FR 44813, July 31, 1979. Redesignated at 44 FR 63080, Nov. 2, 1979, as amended at 66 FR 66710, Dec. 27, 2001; 73 FR 60611, Oct. 14, 2008] 




