# ยง 171.1   Petition for relief.

(a) *To whom addressed.* Petitions for the remission or mitigation of a fine, penalty, or forfeiture incurred under any law administered by Customs must be addressed to the Fines, Penalties, and Forfeitures Officer designated in the notice of claim. 


(b) *Signature.* For commercial violations, the petition for remission or mitigation must be signed by the petitioner, his attorney-at-law or a Customs broker. If the petitioner is a corporation, the petition may be signed by an officer or responsible supervisory official of the corporation, or a responsible employee representative of the corporation. Electronic signatures are acceptable. In non-commercial violations, a non-English speaking petitioner or petitioner who has a disability which may impede his ability to file a petition may enlist a family member or other representative to file a petition on his behalf. The deciding Customs officer may, in his or her discretion, require proof of representation before consideration of any petition. 


(c) *Form.* The petition for remission or mitigation need not be in any particular form. Customs can require that the petition and any documents submitted in support of the petition be in English or be accompanied by an English translation. The petition must set forth the following: 


(1) A description of the property involved (if a seizure); 


(2) The date and place of the violation or seizure; 


(3) The facts and circumstances relied upon by the petitioner to justify remission or mitigation; and 


(4) If a seizure case, proof of a petitionable interest in the seized property. 


(d) *False statement in petition.* A false statement contained in a petition may subject the petitioner to prosecution under the provisions of 18 U.S.C. 1001. 




