# ยง 117.6   Removal of animals.

Production animals or ex-test animals which are no longer useful at the licensed establishment may be removed from the premises of the licensed establishment; provided, such removal is accomplished in a manner as shall preclude the dissemination of disease and in accordance with the following conditions: 


(a) Meat-producing animals which received a biological product containing inactivated microorganisms and adjuvants within 21 days shall not be removed; or 


(b) Animals which received virulent microorganisms within 30 days shall not be removed; or 


(c) Only animals that are in a healthy condition as determined by a veterinarian shall be removed, except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section. 


(d) Other animals that are injured or otherwise unhealthy, except when affected with a communicable disease, may be removed for immediate slaughter to an abattoir operated in accordance with the Federal Meat Inspection Act of March 4, 1907, 34 Stat. 1260, as amended by the Wholesome Meat Act of 1967, 81 Stat. 585 (21 U.S.C. sec. 601 *et seq.*): *Provided,* That such animals shall be properly marked for identification and the inspector in charge of slaughter operations is given due notice in advance. 


(e) All animals on the premises shall be disposed of in accordance with the provisions of the regulations in this part and where specific provision is not made therefor shall be disposed of as required by the Administrator. 



---

[N] [38 FR 15499, June 13, 1973, as amended at 56 FR 66784, Dec. 26, 1991]




