# § 800.165   Corrected certificates.

(a) *General.* The accuracy of the statements and information shown on official certificates shall be verified by the individual whose name or signature is shown on the certificate, or by the authorized agent who affixed the name or signature. Errors found during this process shall be corrected according to this section.


(b) *Who may correct.* Only official personnel or their authorized agents may make corrections, erasures, additions, or other changes to official certificates.


(c) *Corrections prior to issuance*—(1) *Export certificates.* No corrections, erasures, additions, or other changes can be made to an export certificate. If any error is found prior to issuance, a new certificate shall be prepared and issued and the incorrect certificate marked “Void.”


(2) *Other than export certificates.* No corrections, erasures, additions, or other changes shall be made to other than export certificates which involve identification, grade, gross, tare, or net weight. If errors are found, a new certificate shall be prepared and issued and the incorrect certificate marked “Void.” Otherwise, errors may be corrected provided that (i) the corrections are neat and legible, (ii) each correction is initialed by the individual who corrects the certificate, and (iii) the corrections and initials are shown on the original and all copies.


(d) *Corrections after issuance*—(1) *General.* If errors are found on a certificate at any time up to a maximum of 1 year after issuance, the errors shall be corrected by obtaining the incorrect certificate and replacing it with a corrected certificate. When the incorrect certificate cannot be obtained, a corrected certificate can be issued superseding the incorrect one.


(2) *Certification requirements.* The same statements and information, including permissive statements, that were shown on the incorrect certificate, along with the correct statement or information, shall be shown on the corrected certificate. According to this section and the instructions, corrected certificates shall show (i) the terms “Corrected-Original” and “Corrected-Copy;” (ii) a statement identifying the superseded certificate and the corrections; (iii) a statement indicating the superseded certificate was not surrended if the incorrect certificate was not surrendered; and (iv) a new serial number. In addition, the incorrect certificate shall be marked “Void” when submitted.


(e) *Limitations.* Corrected certificates cannot be issued for a certificate that has been superseded by another certificate or on the basis of a subsequent analysis for quality.


(f) *Use of superseded certificate prohibited.* As of the date of issuance of the corrected certificate, the superseded certificate will be void and shall not be used to represent the grain.


