# ยง 2804.27   What fees must I pay if the BLM denies my application or if I withdraw my application or relinquish my grant?

If the BLM denies or you withdraw your application, or you relinquish your grant, you owe the current fees for the applicable cost recovery category as set forth at ยง 2804.14, unless you have a Category 5 or 6 application, in which case, the following conditions apply:


(a) If the BLM denies your Category 5 or 6 right-of-way application, you are liable for all reasonable costs that the United States incurred in processing it. The money you have not paid is due within 30 calendar days after receiving a bill for the amount due;


(b) You may withdraw your Category 5 or 6 application in writing before the BLM issues a grant. If you do so, you are liable for all reasonable processing costs the United States has incurred up to the time you withdraw the application and for the reasonable costs of terminating your application. Any money you have not paid is due within 30 calendar days after receiving a bill for the amount due. Any money you paid that is not used to cover costs the United States incurred as a result of your application will be refunded to you; and


(c) You may relinquish your grant in writing. If you do so, you are liable for all reasonable costs the United States has incurred up to the time you relinquish the grant and for the reasonable costs of closing your grant. Any cost recovery fees you have not previously paid are due within 30 calendar days after receiving a bill for the amount due. The BLM will refund any cost recovery fees you paid in Categories 5 or 6 that were not used to cover costs the United States incurred as a result of your grant.





---

[N] [89 FR 25962, Apr. 12, 2024]








