# § 1.143   Submissions to the Secretary.

(a) *Electronic submission.* All submissions from the Authority to the Commission pursuant to the provisions of subpart S or U of this part, and all submissions to the Commission pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 3053(a) (proposed rules or rule modifications), 15 U.S.C. 3052(f)(1)(C)(iv) (proposed rate increases), or 15 U.S.C. 3054(g)(2) (guidance) must be emailed to the Secretary of the Commission at *electronicfilings@ftc.gov.* The subject line of the email must begin with “HISA Submission:” followed by a brief description of the submission.




(b) *Format for submissions*—(1) 

*Electronic format.* All documents submitted to the Secretary under this section must be submitted in .pdf format or in some other electronic format specified by the Office of the Secretary. The proposed text of _Federal Register_ publications must also be submitted in a Microsoft Word or .rtf format.


(2) *Table of contents.* Submissions with more than one attachment must contain a table of contents in the body of the email with a brief description of each item.


(3) *Contact information.* The Authority must provide the name, telephone number, and email address of a person on the staff of the Authority responsible for responding to questions and comments on the submission in the body of the email.


(4) *Draft*_Federal Register_*documents.* Draft _Federal Register_ documents must follow the relevant format and editorial requirements for regulatory documents under 1 CFR parts 18, 21, and 22 (see Office of Federal Register's Document Drafting Handbook). The Document Drafting Handbook specifies that draft _Federal Register_ documents (see 1 CFR 15.10) must:


(i) Contain proper preamble captions and content;


(ii) State the purpose of, and basis for, the proposed rule or modification;


(iii) Set forth regulatory text, headings, and authority citations;


(iv) Use correct numbering, structure, and amendatory language; and


(v) Conform to the style and formatting established by the Office of the Federal Register and Government Publishing Office. (See, specifically, section 2.17 (proposed rules) of the Office of the Federal Register's Document Drafting Handbook.)


(c) *Confidential information.* If a document filed with the Secretary contains confidential information, the Secretary must be so informed, and a request for confidential treatment must be submitted in accordance with 16 CFR 4.9.


(d) *Date of filing.* If the conditions of this section are otherwise satisfied, all filings submitted electronically on or before 5:30 p.m. Eastern Time, on a business day, will be deemed filed on that business day, and all filings submitted after 5:30 p.m. Eastern Time, will be deemed filed on the next business day.


(e) *Authority to reject documents for filing.* The Secretary of the Commission may reject a document for filing that fails to comply with the Commission's rules.


(f) _Federal Register_*publication.* For submissions required to be published in the _Federal Register,_ if the conditions set forth in this section and § 1.142 have been satisfied, the Commission will publish the Authority's submission in the _Federal Register_.







---

[N] [86 FR 54823, Oct. 5, 2021, as amended at 89 FR 8531, Feb. 8, 2024]




