# ยง 301.6103(p)(7)-1   Procedures for administrative review of a determination that an authorized recipient has failed to safeguard returns or return information.

(a) *In general.* Notwithstanding any section of the Internal Revenue Code (Code), the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) may terminate or suspend disclosure of returns and return information to any authorized recipient specified in section (p)(4) of section 6103, if the IRS determines that:


(1) The authorized recipient has allowed an unauthorized inspection or disclosure of returns or return information and that the authorized recipient has not taken adequate corrective action to prevent the recurrence of an unauthorized inspection or disclosure; or


(2) The authorized recipient does not satisfactorily maintain the safeguards prescribed by section 6103(p)(4), and has made no adequate plan to improve its system to maintain the safeguards satisfactorily.


(b) *Notice of IRS's intention to terminate or suspend disclosure.* Prior to terminating or suspending authorized disclosures, the IRS will notify the authorized recipient in writing of the IRS's preliminary determination and of the IRS's intention to discontinue disclosure of returns and return information to the authorized recipient. Upon so notifying the authorized recipient, the IRS, if it determines that tax administration otherwise would be seriously impaired, may suspend further disclosures of returns and return information to the authorized recipient pending a final determination by the Commissioner or a Deputy Commissioner described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.


(c) *Authorized recipient's right to appeal.* An authorized recipient shall have 30 days from the date of receipt of a notice described in paragraph (b) of this section to appeal the preliminary determination described in paragraph (b) of this section. The appeal shall be made directly to the Commissioner.


(d) *Procedures for administrative review.* (1) To appeal a preliminary determination described in paragraph (b) of this section, the authorized recipient shall send a written request for a conference to: Commissioner of Internal Revenue (Attention: SE:S:CLD:GLD), 1111 Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20224. The request must include a complete description of the authorized recipient's present system of safeguarding returns or return information received by the authorized recipient (and its authorized contractors or agents, if any). The request must state the reason or reasons the authorized recipient believes that such system or practice (including improvements, if any, to such system or practice expected to be made in the near future) is or will be adequate to safeguard returns or return information.


(2) Within 45 days of the receipt of the request made in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the Commissioner or Deputy Commissioner personally shall hold a conference with representatives of the authorized recipient, after which the Commissioner or Deputy Commissioner shall make a final determination with respect to the appeal.


(e) *Effective/applicability date.* This section applies to all authorized recipients of returns and return information that are subject to the safeguard requirements set forth in section 6103(p)(4) on or after February 11, 2009.



---

[N] [T.D. 9445, 74 FR 6830, Feb. 11, 2009]




