# ยง 1955.145   Land acquisition to effect sale.

The State Director is authorized to acquire land which is necessary to effect sale of inventory real property. This action must be considered only on a case-by-case basis and may not be undertaken primarily to increase the financial return to the Government through speculation. The State Director's authority under this section may *not* be redelegated. For MFH and other organization-type loans, prior approval must be obtained from the appropriate Assistant Administrator prior to land acquisition.


(a) *Alternate site.* Where real property has been determined to be NP due to location and where it is economically feasible to relocate the structure thereby making it a program property, the State Director may authorize the acquisition of a suitable parcel of land to relocate the structure if economically feasible. The remaining NP parcel of land will be sold for its market value.


(b) *Additional land.* Where real property has been determined NP for reasons that may be cured by the acquisition of adjacent land or an alternate site, in order to cure title defects or encroachments or where structures have been built on the wrong land *and* where it is economically feasible, the State Director may authorize the acquisition of additional land at a price not in excess of its market value.


(c) *Easements or rights-of-way.* The State Director may authorize the acquisition of easements, rights-of-way or other interests in land to cure title defects, encroachments or in order to make NP property a program property, if economically feasible.



---

[N] [53 FR 27839, July 25, 1988]




