# § 761.5   Definitions.

(a) *Defense area.* A naval defensive sea area, naval airspace reservation, or naval administrative area established by Executive order of the President.


(b) *Department of Defense.* The Department of Defense, including the Departments of the Army, Navy, and Air Force.


(c) *Entry authorization.* A document which authorizes a ship, aircraft, or person to enter a defense area.


(d) *Entry Control Commander.* A commander empowered to issue entry authorizations for one or more defense areas (see § 761.9).


(e) *Excluded person.* A person who does not hold a currently valid entry authorization for the area concerned and who has been notified by an Entry Control Commander that authority for him to enter any defense area has been denied, suspended or revoked.


(f) *Foreign nationals.* Persons who are not citizens or nationals of the United States.


(g) *Military installation.* A military (Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, and/or Coast Guard) activity ashore, having a commanding officer, and located in an area having fixed boundaries, within which all persons are subject to military control and to the immediate authority of a commanding officer.


(h) *Public vessel or aircraft.* A ship or aircraft owned by or belonging to a government and not engaged in commercial activity.


(i) *Territorial sea*—(1) *Trust Territory.* In accordance with title 19, section 101(3), of the Trust Territory Code “* * * that part of the sea comprehended within the envelope of all arcs of circles having a radius of three marine miles drawn from all points of the barrier reef, fringing reef, or other reef system of the Trust Territory, measured from the low water line, or, in the absence of such reef system, the distance to be measured from the low water line of any island, islet, atoll, reef, or rocks within the jurisdiction of the Trust Territory.”


(2) *Other areas.* That part of the sea included within the envelope of all arcs of circles having a radius of three marine miles with centers on the low water line of the coast. For the purpose of this definition, the term “coast” includes the coasts of islands, islets, rocks, atolls, reefs and other areas of land permanently above the high water mark.


(j) *Trust Territory Registry.* Registration of a ship or aircraft in accordance with the laws of the Trust Territory.


(k) *U.S. Registry.* Registration of a ship or aircraft in accordance with the laws and regulations of the United States.


(l) *U.S. Armed Forces.* Military personnel of the Department of Defense, the Departments of the Army, Navy, Air Force, and the United States Coast Guard.



---

[N] [28 FR 13778, Dec. 18, 1963, as amended at 35 FR 10009, June 18, 1970; 41 FR 28958, July 14, 1976]




