# § 158.523   Appointment types and circumstances.

(a) *Renewable appointment.* Appointment of an individual to a renewable appointment is for up to three years. The Department may renew a renewable appointment for any time period of up to three years, subject to any limitation in CTMS policy regarding the number of renewals. Subject to any additional limitation in CTMS policy, the Department may change an unexpired renewable appointment to a continuing appointment for a DHS-CS employee receiving a salary in the standard range described in § 158.613(b). The following types of renewable appointments include special conditions:


(1) *Reemployed annuitant.* Under this part, the Department may appoint an annuitant to a qualified position and must appoint the annuitant to a renewable appointment. An annuitant appointed to a qualified position serves at the will of the Secretary.


(2) *Uncompensated service.* Under this part, the Department may appoint to a qualified position an individual to provide uncompensated service, any such service is gratuitous service, and the Department must appoint such an individual to a renewable appointment. The gratuitous nature of service must be a condition of employment of such an appointment. The Secretary or designee must approve the appointment of each individual providing uncompensated service by name, and such individual if not providing gratuitous service would otherwise be eligible to receive a salary under this part at or above the amount described in § 158.614(a)(2). An individual providing uncompensated service serves at the will of the Secretary. An individual for appointment to a qualified position to provide uncompensated service need not be assessed under this part, and the documentation associated with that individual's qualified position need not include all the information listed in § 158.706(c).


(b) *Continuing appointment.* Appointment of an individual to a continuing appointment is for an indefinite time period.


(c) *Advisory appointment.* Appointment of an individual, including a former DHS-CS employee, to an advisory appointment is governed by subpart J of this part.


(d) *Former DHS-CS employee.* Appointment under this part of a former DHS-CS employee is governed by § 158.525.


(e) *Restoration to duty from uniformed service or compensable injury.* In accordance with 5 CFR part 353, the Department restores to duty a DHS-CS employee who is a covered person described in 5 CFR 353.103.


(f) *Current and former political appointees.* Appointment under this part of a current political appointee and a former political appointee, both as defined by OPM, may be subject to additional requirements outside of this part, including coordination with OPM.






