# ยง 3565.403   Special servicing.

Special servicing must be initiated when regular servicing actions are insufficient to resolve borrower default or property deficiencies.


(a) *Repurchase from Holder.* For securitized loans, the Holder may require the lender or Government to repurchase the security in accordance with the provisions of ยง 3565.405.


(b) *Responsibility of lender.* It is the lender's responsibility during special servicing to make a special effort to ensure that maintenance of the property meets Agency requirements and the tenants' rights are protected, until such time that the property is liquidated by the lender, the loan is paid in full, or the loan is assigned to the Agency. The lender must update the Agency monthly until the default is cured or a claim is filed. The lender must maintain adequate records of any and all efforts to cure the default or to foreclose.


(c) *Initiating special servicing.* When special servicing is initiated, the lender must submit for Agency review a special servicing plan that includes proposed actions to cure the deficiencies and a timeframe for completion. The special servicing plan will specify the proposed terms of any workout agreement recommended by the lender. The lender must obtain Agency approval of the terms of any workout agreement with the borrower. The workout agreement may include a loan modification, transfer of physical assets, or partial payment of claim and reamortization of the loan. Failure to comply with terms contained in the executed workout agreement will be considered a default of the guaranteed loan.


(1) *Loan modification.* The borrower and lender may agree to a loan modification when such action will improve the financial viability of the project and its operations, and when a circumstance exists that is beyond the borrower's control. The Agency must approve in advance any loan modification that extends the life of the loan or requires an increase in the amount of the guarantee. All changes must be within the requirements of section 538 of the Housing Act of 1949.


(2) *Change in ownership and transfer of physical assets.* A default or delinquency may be resolved by a change of the ownership entity in whole or in part. The Agency must approve all changes in ownership prior to the effective date of the transfer, and may require additional resources from the lender or borrower to resolve project deficiencies. 


(3) *Partial payment of claims.* The lender may request a partial payment of claim as a result of a loss experienced by the lender as a means to work out a troubled loan. The Agency will accept such claim if it determines that it is in the best interest of the government. In applying the partial payment, the lender must assign the obligation covered by the partial payment to the Agency, and, if required by the Agency, reamortize the obligation using the amount of the remaining obligation over an agreed-upon term.


(d) *Claims processing.* In the event of a loss, the lender must submit claims under the guarantee in accordance with subpart J of this part. Prior to submitting a claim, the lender must exhaust all possibilities of collection on the loan.


(e) *Displacement prevention.* The actions of the lender must not harm the property's tenants through displacement.



---

[N] [63 FR 39458, July 22, 1998, as amended at 67 FR 16971, Apr. 9, 2002; 70 FR 2931, Jan. 19, 2005]




