# § 416.1166   How we deem income to you and your eligible child from your ineligible spouse.

If you and your eligible child live in the same household with your ineligible spouse, we deem your ineligible spouse's income first to you, and then we deem any remainder to your eligible child. For the purpose of this section, SSI benefits include any federally administered State supplement. We then follow the rules in § 416.1165(e) to determine the child's eligibility for SSI benefits and in § 416.1165(f) to determine the benefit amount.


(a) *Determining your ineligible spouse's income.* We first determine how much earned and unearned income your ineligible spouse has, using the appropriate exclusions in § 416.1161(a).


(b) *Allocations for ineligible children.* We next deduct an allocation for each ineligible child in the household as described in § 416.1163(b).


(c) *Allocations for aliens who are sponsored by and have income deemed from your ineligible spouse.* We also deduct an allocation for eligible aliens who have been sponsored by and have income deemed from your ineligible spouse as described in § 416.1163(c).


(d) *Determining your eligibility for SSI benefits and benefit amount.* We then follow the rules in § 416.1163(c) to find out if any of your ineligible spouse's current monthly income is deemed to you and, if so, to determine countable income for a couple. Next, we follow paragraph (e) of this section to determine your child's eligibility. However, if none of your spouse's income is deemed to you, none is deemed to your child. Whether or not your spouse's income is deemed to you in determining your eligibility, we determine your benefit amount as explained in § 416.1163(e).


(e) *Determining your child's eligibility and amount of benefits.* (1) If you are eligible for SSI benefits after your spouse's income has been deemed to you, we do not deem any income to your child. To determine the child's eligibility, we subtract the child's own countable income without deeming from the benefit rate for an individual.


(2) If you are not eligible for SSI benefits after your ineligible spouse's income has been deemed to you, we deem to your eligible child any of your spouse's income which was not used to reduce your SSI benefits to zero.


(f) *Examples.* These examples show how we deem income to an eligible individual and an eligible child in the same household. The Federal benefit rates used are those effective January 1, 1984.



---

[N] [45 FR 65547, Oct. 3, 1980, as amended at 50 FR 48578, Nov. 26, 1985; 52 FR 8887, Mar. 20, 1987; 64 FR 31975, June 15, 1999]




