# ยง 1200.51   Definitions.

As used in this subpart, the terms as defined in the Act shall apply with equal force and effect. In addition, unless the context otherwise requires: 


(a) The term *Act* means the Commodity Research, Promotion, and Information Act of 1996 [7 U.S.C. 7401-7425]; the Cotton Research and Promotion Act, as amended [7 U.S.C. 2101-2119]; the Dairy Production Stabilization Act of 1983 [7 U.S.C. 4501-4513]; the Egg Research and Consumer Information Act, as amended [7 U.S.C. 2701-2718]; the Fluid Milk Promotion Act of 1990 [7 U.S.C. 6401-6417]; the Hass Avocado Promotion, Research, and Information Act of 2000 [7 U.S.C. 7801-7813]; the Honey Research, Promotion, and Consumer Information Act, as amended [7 U.S.C. 4601-4612]; the Mushroom Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Act of 1990 [7 U.S.C. 6101-6112]; the Pecan Promotion and Research Act of 1990 [7 U.S.C. 6001-6013]; the Popcorn Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Act [7 U.S.C. 7481-7491]; the Pork Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Act [7 U.S.C. 4801-4819]; the Potato Research and Promotion Act, as amended [7 U.S.C. 2611-2627]; the Sheep Promotion, Research, and Information Act of 1994 [7 U.S.C. 7101-7111]; the Soybean Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Act [7 U.S.C. 6301-6311]; and the Watermelon Research and Promotion Act, as amended, [7 U.S.C. 4901-4916]. 


(b) *Administrator* means the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has been delegated or may hereafter be delegated to act for the Administrator. 


(c) *Decision* means the judge's initial decision and includes the judge's: 


(1) Findings of fact and conclusions with respect to all material issues of fact, law or discretion, as well as the reasons or basis thereof; 


(2) Order; and 


(3) Rulings on findings, conclusions and orders submitted by the parties. 


(d) *Department* means the U.S. Department of Agriculture. 


(e) Hearing means that part of the proceedings which involves the submission of evidence. 


(f) *Hearing clerk* means the Hearing Clerk, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, D.C. 


(g) *Judge* means any administrative law judge appointed pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3105 or any presiding official appointed by the Secretary, and assigned to conduct the proceeding.


(h) *Order* means any order or any amendment thereto which may be issued pursuant to the Act. The term order shall include plans issued under the Acts listed in paragraph (a) of this section. 


(i) *Party* includes the Department. 


(j) *Person* means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, association, cooperative, or any other legal entity subject to an order or to whom an order is sought to be made applicable, or on whom an obligation has been imposed or is sought to be imposed under an order. 


(k) *Petition* includes an amended petition. 


(l) *Proceeding* means a proceeding before the Secretary arising under the pertinent section of an Act. 


(m) *Secretary* means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States, or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has heretofore been delegated, or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated, to act for the Secretary.



---

[N] [67 FR 44350, July 2, 2002, as amended at 82 FR 58098, Dec. 11, 2017]




