# § 195.418   Valves: Onshore valve shut-off for rupture mitigation.

(a) *Applicability.* For newly constructed and entirely replaced onshore hazardous liquid or carbon dioxide pipeline segments, as defined at § 195.2, with diameters of 6 inches or greater that could affect high-consequence areas or are located in high consequence areas (HCA), and that have been installed after April 10, 2023, an operator must install or use existing rupture-mitigation valves (RMV), as defined at § 195.2, or alternative equivalent technologies according to the requirements of this section and § 195.419. RMVs and alternative equivalent technologies must be operational within 14 days of placing the new or replaced pipeline segment in service. An operator may request an extension of this 14-day operation requirement if it can demonstrate to PHMSA, in accordance with the notification procedures in § 195.18, that application of that requirement would be economically, technically, or operationally infeasible. The requirements of this section apply to all applicable pipe replacements, even those that do not otherwise directly involve the addition or replacement of a valve.


(b) *Maximum spacing between valves.* RMVs and alternative equivalent technology must be installed in accordance with the following requirements:


(1) *Shut-off Segment.* For purposes of this section, a “shut-off segment” means the segment of pipeline located between the upstream valve closest to the upstream endpoint of the replaced pipeline segment in the HCA or the pipeline segment that could affect an HCA and the downstream valve closest to the downstream endpoint of the replaced pipeline segment of the HCA or the pipeline segment that could affect an HCA so that the entirety of the segment that could affect the HCA or the segment within the HCA is between at least two RMVs or alternative equivalent technologies. If any crossover or lateral pipe for commodity receipts or deliveries connects to the replaced segment between the upstream and downstream valves, the shut-off segment also extends to a valve on the crossover connection(s) or lateral(s), such that, when all valves are closed, there is no flow path for commodity to be transported to the rupture site (except for residual liquids already in the shut-off segment). Multiple segments that could affect HCAs or are in HCAs may be contained within a single shut-off segment. All entirely replaced onshore hazardous liquid or carbon dioxide pipeline segments, as defined in § 195.2, that could affect or are in an HCA must include a minimum of one valve that meets the requirements of this section and section 195.419. The operator is not required to select the closest valve to the shut-off segment as the RMV or alternative equivalent technology. An operator may use a manual pump station valve at a continuously manned station as an alternative equivalent technology. Such a manual valve used as an alternative equivalent technology would not require a notification to PHMSA in accordance with § 195.18.


(2) *Shut-off segment valve spacing.* Pipeline segments subject to paragraph (a) of this section must be protected on the upstream and downstream side with RMVs or alternative equivalent technologies. The distance between RMVs or alternative equivalent technologies must not exceed:


(i) For pipeline segments carrying non-highly volatile liquids (HVL): 15 miles, with a maximum distance not to exceed 7
1/2 miles from the endpoints of a shut-off segment: or


(ii) For pipeline segments carrying HVLs: 7
1/2 miles. The maximum valve spacing intervals for these valves may be increased by 1.25 times the spacing distance, up to a 9
3/8-mile spacing at an endpoint, provided the operator notify PHMSA in accordance with § 195.260 (g).


(3) *Laterals.* Laterals extending from shut-off segments that contribute less than 5 percent of the total shut-off segment volume may have RMVs or alternative equivalent technologies that meet the actuation requirements of this section at locations other than mainline receipt/delivery points, as long as all of these laterals contributing hazardous liquid or carbon dioxide volumes to the shut-off segment do not contribute more than 5 percent of the total shut-off segment volume, based upon maximum flow volume at the operating pressure. A check valve may be used as an alternative equivalent technology where it is positioned to stop flow into the lateral. Check valves used as an alternative equivalent technology in accordance with this paragraph (b)(3) are not subject to § 195.419 but must be inspected, operated, and remediated in accordance with § 195.420, including for closure and leakage, to ensure operational reliability. An operator using such a valve as an alternative equivalent technology must submit a request to PHMSA in accordance with § 195.18.


(4) *Crossovers.* An operator may use a manual valve as an alternative equivalent technology for a crossover connection if, during normal operations, the valve is closed to prevent the flow of hazardous liquid or carbon dioxide with a locking device or other means designed to prevent the opening of the valve by persons other than those authorized by the operator. The operator must document that the valve has been closed and locked in accordance with the operator's lock-out and tag-out procedures to prevent the flow of hazardous liquid or carbon dioxide. An operator using a such a valve as an alternative equivalent technology must submit a request to PHMSA in accordance with § 195.18.


(c) *Manual operation upon identification of a rupture.* Operators using a manual valve as an alternative equivalent technology pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must develop and implement operating procedures and appropriately designate and locate nearby personnel to ensure valve shut-off in accordance with this section and § 195.419. Manual operation of valves must include time for the assembly of necessary operating personnel, the acquisition of necessary tools and equipment, driving time under heavy traffic conditions and at the posted speed limit, walking time to access the valve, and time to manually shut off all valves, not to exceed the response time in § 195.419(b).


(d) *Exception.* The requirements of this section do not apply to gathering lines.



---

[N] [Amdt. 195-105, 87 FR 20989, Apr. 8, 2022, as amended by Amdt. 195-106, 88 FR 50063, Aug. 1, 2023]






