# § 2.100   International Radio Regulations.

The United States is a Member State of the International Telecommunication Union (ITU). The legal framework of the ITU is comprised of the Constitution and Convention of the International Telecommunication Union—which have treaty status and are binding on ITU Member States—and the Administrative Regulations—which complement the Constitution and the Convention. The Radio Regulations form an integral part of the Administrative Regulations.


(a) The Radio Regulations are available at *https://www.itu.int/pub/R-REG-RR/en* and consist of:


(1) Articles in volume 1. Article 5 includes the ITU's Table of Frequency Allocations, which is the basis for the International Table in § 2.106, as well as the text of the footnotes to the ITU's Table of Frequency Allocations, which is the basis for the list of international footnotes in § 2.106. A description of terms and abbreviations used in the international footnotes is as follows:


(i) ITU-R (ITU Radiocommunication Sector).


(ii) No. (composite number indicating the number of the ITU Article and the provision number within that Article (e.g., No. 9.2B means provision No. 2B of Article 9).


(iii) Radio Regulations (ITU Radio Regulations).


(iv) WRC (World Radiocommunication Conference).


(2) Appendices (with Annexes) in volume 2.


(3) Resolutions and Recommendations in volume 3.


(4) ITU Radiocommunication Sector (ITU-R) Recommendations as referenced in volume 4.


(b) The Radio Regulations (Edition of 2012) have been incorporated to the extent practicable in this part, except that the International Table within § 2.106 has been updated to reflect the Radio Regulations (Edition of 2016).





---

[N] [88 FR 37320, June 7, 2023]






