# § 86.1811-09   Emission standards for light-duty vehicles, light-duty trucks and medium-duty passenger vehicles.

Section 86.1811-09 includes text that specifies requirements that differ from § 86.1811-04. Where a paragraph in § 86.1811-04 is identical and applicable to § 86.1811-09, this may be indicated by specifying the corresponding paragraph and the statement “[Reserved]. For guidance see § 86.1811-04.” Where a corresponding paragraph of § 86.1811-04 is not applicable, this is indicated by the statement “[Reserved]”


(a) *Applicability.* (1) This section contains regulations implementing emission standards for all LDVs, LDTs and MDPVs. This section applies to 2009 and later model year LDVs, LDTs and MDPVs fueled by gasoline, diesel, methanol, ethanol, natural gas and liquefied petroleum gas fuels, except as noted. Additionally, this section applies to hybrid electric vehicles (HEVs) and zero emission vehicles (ZEVs). Unless otherwise specified, multi-fueled vehicles must comply with all requirements established for each consumed fuel.


(2) through (4) [Reserved]. For guidance see § 86.1811-04.


(5) The exhaust emission standards and evaporative emission standards of this section apply equally to certification and in-use LDVs, LDTs and MDPVs, unless otherwise specified. See paragraph (t) of this section for interim evaporative emission in-use standards that are different than the certification evaporative emission standards specified in paragraph (e) of this section.


(b) through (d) [Reserved]. For guidance see § 86.1811-04.


(e) *Evaporative emission standards.* Evaporative emissions from gasoline-fueled, natural gas-fueled, liquefied petroleum gas-fueled, ethanol-fueled and methanol-fueled vehicles must not exceed the standards in this paragraph (e) at low altitude conditions. The evaporative emission standards specified in § 86.1811-04(e)(1) continue to apply at high altitude conditions. The standards apply equally to certification and in-use vehicles.


(1) *Diurnal-plus-hot soak evaporative hydrocarbon standards.* (i) Hydrocarbons for LDV/LLDTs, HLDTs and MDPVs that are gasoline-fueled, dedicated natural gas-fueled, dedicated liquefied petroleum gas-fueled, dedicated ethanol-fueled, dedicated methanol-fueled and multi-fueled vehicles when operating on gasoline must not exceed the diurnal plus hot soak standards shown in Table S09-1 for the full three diurnal test sequence and for the supplemental two diurnal test sequence. The standards apply equally to certification and in-use vehicles, except as otherwise specified in paragraph (t) of this section. Table S09-1 follows:


(ii) Hydrocarbons for LDV/LLDTs, HLDTs and MDPVs that are multi-fueled vehicles operating on non-gasoline fuel must not exceed the diurnal plus hot soak standards shown in Table S09-2 for the full three diurnal test sequence and for the supplemental two diurnal test sequence. The standards apply equally to certification and in-use vehicles except as otherwise specified in paragraph (t) of this section. Table S09-2 follows:


(iii) For multi-fueled vehicles operating on non-gasoline fuel, manufacturers must comply with the phase-in requirements in Table S09-3 of this paragraph for the evaporative emission requirements specified in Table S09-2 of this section. Phase-in schedules are grouped together for LDV/LLDTs and HLDT/MDPVs. These requirements specify the minimum percentage of the manufacturer's LDV/LLDT/HLDT/MDPV 50-State sales, by model year, that must meet the requirements for their full useful lives. Table S09-3 follows:


(2) through (6) [Reserved]. For guidance see § 86.1811-04.


(7) In cases where vehicles are certified to evaporative emission standards in Tables S09-1 and S09-2 of this section, the Administrator may accept evaporative emissions data for low altitude testing in accordance with California test conditions and test procedures (in lieu of the evaporative emission test condition and test procedure requirements of subpart B of this part).


(f) through (s) [Reserved]. For guidance see § 86.1811-04.


(t) *Evaporative emission in-use standards.* (1) For LDVs and LLDTs certified prior to the 2012 model year, the Tier 2 LDV/LLDT evaporative emissions standards in Table S04-3 of § 86.1811-04(e) shall apply to in-use vehicles for only the first three model years after an evaporative family is first certified to the LDV/LLDT evaporative emission standards in Table S09-1 of paragraph (e) of this section, as shown in Table S09-4. For example, evaporative families first certified to the LDV/LLDT standards in Table S09-1 in the 2011 model year must meet the Tier 2 LDV/LLDT evaporative emission standards (Table S04-3) in-use for 2011, 2012, and 2013 model year vehicles (applying Tier 2 standards in-use is limited to the first three years after introduction of a vehicle).


(2) For HLDTs and MDPVs certified prior to the 2013 model year, the Tier 2 HLDT/MDPV evaporative emissions standards in Table S04-3 of § 86.1811-04(e) shall apply to in-use vehicles for only the first three model years after an evaporative family is first certified to the HLDT/MDPV evaporative emission standards in Table S09-1 of paragraph (e) of this section, as shown in Table S09-5. For example, evaporative families first certified to the HLDT/MDPV standards in Table S09-1 in the 2012 model year must meet the Tier 2 HLDT/MDPV evaporative emission standards (Table S04-3) in-use for 2012, 2013, and 2014 model year vehicles (applying Tier 2 standards in-use is limited to the first three years after introduction of a vehicle).



---

[N] [72 FR 8562, Feb. 26, 2007; 72 FR 13352, Mar. 21, 2007, as amended at 76 FR 39521, July 6, 2011]




