# § 405.1212   Expedited reconsideration procedures regarding Part A coverage when a beneficiary is reclassified from an inpatient to an outpatient receiving observation services.

(a) *Beneficiary's right to an expedited reconsideration.* An eligible beneficiary who is dissatisfied with a QIO's expedited determination per § 405.1211(c)(6) may request an expedited reconsideration by the QIO identified in the written notice specified in § 405.1211(c)(8)(iv).


(b) *Requesting an expedited reconsideration.* (1) An eligible beneficiary who wishes to obtain an expedited reconsideration must submit a request for the reconsideration to the appropriate QIO, in writing or by telephone, by no later than noon of the calendar day following initial notification (whether by telephone or in writing) after receipt of the QIO's determination.


(2) The eligible beneficiary, or his or her representative, must be available to answer questions or supply information that the QIO may request to conduct its reconsideration.


(3) The eligible beneficiary may, but is not required to, submit evidence to be considered by the QIO in making the reconsideration.


(4) An eligible beneficiary who makes a timely request for an expedited reconsideration in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section is subject to the billing protection under paragraph (e) of this section, as applicable.


(5) An eligible beneficiary who fails to make a timely request for an expedited reconsideration by a QIO, as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, may still request an expedited QIO reconsideration at any time. The QIO issues a reconsideration in accordance with paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section, but the billing protection under paragraph (e) of this section does not apply.


(c) *Procedures and responsibilities of the QIO.* (1) On the day the QIO receives the request for an expedited reconsideration under paragraph (b) of this section, the QIO must immediately notify the hospital of the request for an expedited reconsideration.


(2) The QIO must offer the eligible beneficiary and the hospital an opportunity to provide further information.


(3) When the eligible beneficiary makes—


(i) A timely request in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the QIO must make a reconsideration determination within 2 calendar days of receiving all requested pertinent information; or


(ii) An untimely request, the QIO must make a reconsideration determination within 3 calendar days of receiving all requested pertinent information.


(4) When the QIO issues a reconsideration determination, the QIO must notify the eligible beneficiary, the hospital, and SNF, if applicable, of its decision by telephone, followed by a written notice that must include the following information:


(i) The basis for the determination.


(ii) A detailed rationale for the determination.


(iii) An explanation of the Medicare payment consequences of the determination.


(iv) Information about the eligible beneficiary's right to appeal the QIO's reconsideration decision to OMHA for an ALJ hearing in accordance with subpart I of this part, including how to request an appeal and the time period for doing so.


(d) *Responsibilities of the hospital.* A hospital may, but is not required to, submit evidence to be considered by a QIO in making its reconsideration decision. If a hospital fails to comply with a QIO's request for additional information beyond that furnished to the QIO for purposes of the expedited determination, the QIO makes its reconsideration decision based on the information available.


(e) *Billing during QIO reconsideration.* When an eligible beneficiary requests an expedited reconsideration in accordance with the deadline specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the hospital may not bill the beneficiary for any disputed services until the QIO makes its reconsideration decision.


(f) *Effect of an expedited QIO reconsideration.* The QIO expedited reconsideration is binding for payment purposes only, upon the eligible beneficiary, hospital, and MAC, except if a beneficiary elects to request a hearing by an ALJ in accordance with 42 CFR part 478 subpart B if he or she is dissatisfied with the expedited reconsideration decision.







---

[N] [89 FR 83292, Oct. 15, 2024]








