# § 200.925c   Model codes.

(a) *Incorporation by reference.* The following publications are incorporated by reference under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. The incorporation by reference of these publications has been approved by the Director of the Federal Register. The locations where copies of these publications are available are set forth below. 


(1) *Model Building Codes*—(i) *The BOCA National Building Code, 1993 Edition, The BOCA National Plumbing Code, 1993 Edition, and the BOCA National Mechanical Code, 1993 Edition,* excluding Chapter I, Administration, for the Building, Plumbing and Mechanical Codes and the references to fire retardant treated wood and a distance of 4 feet (1219 mm) from the wall in exception number 1 of paragraph 705.6 and 707.5.2 number 2 (Chapter 7) of the Building Code, but including the Appendices of the Code. Available from Building Officials and Code Administrators International, Inc., 4051 West Flossmoor Road, Country Club Hills, Illinois 60478.


(ii) *Standard Building Code, 1991 Edition, including 1992/1993 revisions. Standard Plumbing Code, 1991 Edition, Standard Mechanical Code, 1991 Edition, including 1992 revisions, and Standard Gas Code, 1991 Edition,* including the 1992 revisions, but excluding Chapter I—Administration from each standard code and the phrase “or fire retardant treated wood” in reference note (a) of table 600 (Chapter 6) of the Standard Building Code, but including Appendices A, C, E, J, K, M, and R. Available from the Southern Building Code Congress International, Inc., 900 Montclair Road, Birmingham, Alabama 35213. 


(iii) *Uniform Building Code, 1991 Edition,* including the 1993 Accumulative Supplement, but excluding Part I—Administrative, and the reference to fire retardant treated plywood in section 2504(c)3 and to fire retardant treated wood in 1-HR type III and V construction referenced in paragraph 4203.2., but including the Appendix of the Code. *Uniform Plumbing Code, 1991 Edition, including the 1992 Code Changes* but excluding Part I—Administration, but including the Appendices of the Code. *Uniform Mechanical Code, 1991 Edition,* including the 1993 Accumulative Supplement but excluding Part I—Administrative, but including the Appendices of the Code. All available from the International Conference of Building Officials, 5360 South Workman Mill Road, Whittier, California 90601.


(2) *National Electrical Code,* NFPA 70, 1993 Edition, including appendices. Available from the National Fire Protection Association, Batterymarch Park, Quincy, Massachusetts 02269. 


(3) *National Standard Plumbing Code,* 1993 Edition. Available from the National Association of Plumbing-Heating-Cooling Contractors, P.O. Box 6808, Falls Church, Virginia 22046. 


(b) *Model Code Compliance Requirements.* (1) When a multifamily or care-type property is to comply with one of the model building codes set forth in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the following requirements of those model codes shall not apply to those properties:


(i) Those provisions of the model codes that do not pertain to residential or institutional buildings;


(ii) Those provisions of the model codes that establish energy requirements for multifamily or care-type structures; and


(iii) Those provisions of the model codes that require or allow the issuance of permits of any sort.


(2) Where the model codes set forth in paragraph (a)(1) of this section designate a building, fire, mechanical, plumbing or other official, the Secretary's designee in the HUD Field Office serving the jurisdiction in which the property is to be constructed shall act as such official.


(c) *Designation of Model Codes.* When a multifamily or care-type property is to comply with a model code, it shall comply with one of the model codes designated in paragraphs (c)(1), (2), or (3) of this section, and with any other code or codes identified in the same paragraph. However, seismic design is a mandatory requirement. In addition, the property shall comply with all of the standards that are incorporated into the code or codes by reference. By the time of application for insurance or other benefits, the developer or other interested party shall notify the Department of the code or group of codes to which the developer intends to comply. 


(1) *The BOCA National Building Code, The BOCA National Plumbing and The BOCA National Mechanical Code,* 1993 Editions. 


(2) *Standard Building Code, Standard Plumbing Code, Standard Mechanical Code and Standard Gas Code,* 1991 Editions, including the revisions specified in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, and the *National Electrical Code,* 1993 Edition. 


(3) *Uniform Building Code, Uniform Plumbing Code and Uniform Mechanical Code,* 1991 Editions, including the 1993 Accumulative Supplements to the Building and Mechanical Codes, and the 1992 Code Changes to the *Uniform Plumbing Code,* and the *National Electrical Code,* NFPA 70, 1993 Edition.


(4) *The National Electrical Code,* NFPA 70, 1993 Edition. 



---

[N] [49 FR 18696, May 1, 1984, as amended at 51 FR 28699, Aug. 11, 1986; 58 FR 60248, Nov. 15, 1993; 59 FR 36695, July 19, 1994]




