# § 84.70   Self-contained breathing apparatus; description.

(a) Self-contained breathing apparatus, including all completely assembled, portable, self-contained devices designed for use as respiratory protection during entry into and escape from or escape only from hazardous atmospheres, are described as follows:


(1) *Closed-circuit apparatus.* An apparatus of the type in which the exhalation is rebreathed by the wearer after the carbon dioxide has been effectively removed and a suitable oxygen concentration restored from sources composed of:


(i) Compressed oxygen; or


(ii) Chemical oxygen; or


(iii) Liquid-oxygen.


(2) Open-circuit apparatus. An apparatus of the following types from which exhalation is vented to the atmosphere and not rebreathed:


(i) *Demand-type apparatus.* An apparatus in which the pressure inside the facepiece in relation to the immediate environment is positive during exhalation and negative during inhalation; or


(ii) *Pressure-demand-type apparatus.* An apparatus in which the pressure inside the facepiece in relation to the immediate environment is positive during both inhalation and exhalation.


(b) The following respirators may be classified as designed and approved for use during emergency entry into a hazardous atmosphere:


(1) A combination respirator which includes a self-contained breathing apparatus; and


(2) A Type “C” or Type “CE” supplied air respirator, where—


(i) The self-contained breathing apparatus is classified for 3-, 5-, or 10-minute service time and the air line supply is used during entry; or


(ii) The self-contained breathing apparatus is classified for 15 minutes or longer service time and not more than 20 percent of the rated capacity of the air supply is used during entry.


(c) Self-contained breathing apparatus classified for less than 1 hour service time will not be approved for use during underground mine rescue and recovery operations except as auxiliary equipment.


(d) Self-contained breathing apparatus classified for less than 30 minutes' service time will not be approved for use as auxiliary equipment during underground mine rescue and recovery operations.



---

[N] [60 FR 30355, June 8, 1995, as amended at 77 FR 14193, Mar. 8, 2012; 84 FR 16412, Apr. 19, 2019]




