# ยง 876.5980   Gastrointestinal tube and accessories.

(a) *Identification.* A gastrointestinal tube and accessories is a device that consists of flexible or semi-rigid tubing used for instilling fluids into, withdrawing fluids from, splinting, or suppressing bleeding of the alimentary tract. This device may incorporate an integral inflatable balloon for retention or hemostasis. This generic type of device includes the hemostatic bag, irrigation and aspiration catheter (gastric, colonic, etc.), rectal catheter, sterile infant gavage set, gastrointestinal string and tubes to locate internal bleeding, double lumen tube for intestinal decompression or intubation, feeding tube, gastroenterostomy tube, Levine tube, nasogastric tube, single lumen tube with mercury weight balloon for intestinal intubation or decompression, and gastro-urological irrigation tray (for gastrological use).


(b) *Classification.* (1) Class II (special controls). The barium enema retention catheter and tip with or without a bag that is a gastrointestinal tube and accessory or a gastronomy tube holder accessory is exempt from the premarket notification procedures in subpart E of part 807 of this chapter subject to the limitations in ยง 876.9. 


(2) Class I (general controls) for the dissolvable nasogastric feed tube guide for the nasogastric tube. The class I device is exempt from the premarket notification procedures in subpart E of part 807 of this chapter subject to ยง 876.9.



---

[N] [49 FR 573, Jan. 5, 1984, as amended at 65 FR 2317, Jan. 14, 2000; 65 FR 76932, Dec. 8, 2000; 84 FR 71814, Dec. 30, 2019]




