# § 438.420   Continuation of benefits while the MCO, PIHP, or PAHP appeal and the State fair hearing are pending.

(a) *Definition.* As used in this section—


*Timely files* means files for continuation of benefits on or before the later of the following:


(i) Within 10 calendar days of the MCO, PIHP, or PAHP sending the notice of adverse benefit determination.


(ii) The intended effective date of the MCO's, PIHP's, or PAHP's proposed adverse benefit determination.


(b) *Continuation of benefits.* The MCO, PIHP, or PAHP must continue the enrollee's benefits if all of the following occur:


(1) The enrollee files the request for an appeal timely in accordance with § 438.402(c)(1)(ii) and (c)(2)(ii);


(2) The appeal involves the termination, suspension, or reduction of previously authorized services;


(3) The services were ordered by an authorized provider;


(4) The period covered by the original authorization has not expired; and


(5) The enrollee timely files for continuation of benefits.


(c) *Duration of continued or reinstated benefits.* If, at the enrollee's request, the MCO, PIHP, or PAHP continues or reinstates the enrollee's benefits while the appeal or state fair hearing is pending, the benefits must be continued until one of following occurs:


(1) The enrollee withdraws the appeal or request for state fair hearing.


(2) The enrollee fails to request a state fair hearing and continuation of benefits within 10 calendar days after the MCO, PIHP, or PAHP sends the notice of an adverse resolution to the enrollee's appeal under § 438.408(d)(2).


(3) A State fair hearing office issues a hearing decision adverse to the enrollee.


(d) *Enrollee responsibility for services furnished while the appeal or state fair hearing is pending.* If the final resolution of the appeal or state fair hearing is adverse to the enrollee, that is, upholds the MCO's, PIHP's, or PAHP's adverse benefit determination, the MCO, PIHP, or PAHP may, consistent with the state's usual policy on recoveries under § 431.230(b) of this chapter and as specified in the MCO's, PIHP's, or PAHP's contract, recover the cost of services furnished to the enrollee while the appeal and state fair hearing was pending, to the extent that they were furnished solely because of the requirements of this section.




