# ยง 1214.2   Review of alien victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons; aliens in pending immigration proceedings.

(a) *Applications for T visas while in proceedings.* Individuals who believe they are victims of severe forms of trafficking in persons and who are in pending immigration proceedings must inform DHS if they intend to apply for T nonimmigrant status under this section. With the concurrence of DHS counsel, a victim of a severe form of trafficking in persons in proceedings before an immigration judge or the Board of Immigration Appeals may request that the proceedings be administratively closed (or that a motion to reopen or motion to reconsider be indefinitely continued) in order to allow the alien to pursue an application for T nonimmigrant status with DHS. If the alien appears eligible for T nonimmigrant status, the immigration judge or the Board, whichever has jurisdiction, may grant such a request to administratively close the proceeding or continue a motion to reopen or motion to reconsider indefinitely. In the event DHS finds an alien ineligible for T-1 nonimmigrant status, DHS may recommence proceedings that have been administratively closed by filing a motion to re-calendar with the immigration court or a motion to reinstate with the Board. If the alien is in DHS custody pending the completion of immigration proceedings, DHS may continue to detain the alien until a decision has been rendered on the application. An alien who is in custody and requests bond or a bond redetermination will be governed by the provisions of part 236 of this chapter. 


(b) *Stay of final order of exclusion, deportation, or removal.* A determination by DHS that an application for T-1 nonimmigrant status is bona fide automatically stays the execution of any final order of exclusion, deportation, or removal. This stay shall remain in effect until there is a final decision on the T application. The filing of an application for T nonimmigrant status does not stay the execution of a final order unless DHS has determined that the application is bona fide. Neither an immigration judge nor the Board of Immigration Appeals has jurisdiction to adjudicate an application for a stay of execution, deportation, or removal order, on the basis of the filing of an application for T nonimmigrant status. 



---

[N] [68 FR 9835, Feb. 28, 2003, as amended at 86 FR 70724, Dec, 13, 2021]








