# § 74.1255   D&C Orange No. 5.

(a) *Identity.* (1) the color additive D&C Orange No. 5 is a mixture consisting principally the sodium salt of 4′,5′-dibromofluorescein (CAS Reg. No. 596-03-2) and 2′,4′,5′-tribromofluorescein (CAS Reg. No. 25709-83-5) and 2′,4′,5′,7′-tetrabromofluorescein (CAS Reg. No. 15086-94-9). D&C Orange No. 5 is manufactured by brominating fluorescein with elemental bromine. The fluorescein is manufactured by the acid condensation of resorcinol and phthalic acid or its anhydride. The fluorescein is isolated and partially purified prior to bromination.


(2) Color additive mixtures for drug use made with D&C Orange No. 5 may contain only those diluents that are suitable and that are listed in part 73 of this chapter for use in color additive mixtures for coloring drugs.


(b) *Specifications.* D&C Orange No. 5 shall conform to the following specifications and shall be free from impurities other than those named to the extent that such impurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice.


(c) *Uses and restrictions.* D&C Orange No. 5 may be safely used for coloring mouthwashes and dentifrices that are ingested drugs in amounts consistent with current good manufacturing practice. D&C Orange No. 5 may be safely used in externally applied drugs in amounts not exceeding 5 milligrams per daily dose of the drug.


(d) *Labeling.* The label of the color additive and any mixtures prepared therefrom intended solely or in part for coloring purposes shall conform to the requirements of § 70.25 of this chapter.


(e) *Certification.* All batches of D&C Orange No. 5 shall be certified in accordance with regulations in part 80 of this chapter.



---

[N] [47 FR 44635, Nov. 2, 1982, as amended at 49 FR 13342, Apr. 4, 1984]




