# ยง 195.35-5   General.

(a) All flame safety lamps shall be of an approved type, constructed in accordance with subpart 160.016 of part 160 of Subchapter Q (Specifications) of this chapter. 


(b) Each self-contained breathing apparatus must be of the pressure-demand, open-circuit type, approved by the Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) and by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH), and have at a minimum a 30-minute air supply and a full facepiece.


(c) Flashlights shall be Type II or Type III, constructed and marked in accordance with ASTM F 1014 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 195.01-3).


(d) All lifelines shall be of steel or bronze wire rope. Steel wire rope shall be either inherently corrosion-resistant, or made so by galvanizing or tinning. Each end shall be fitted with a hook with keeper having throat opening which can be readily slipped over a 
5/8-inch bolt. The total length of the lifeline shall be dependent upon the size and arrangement of the vessel, and more than one line may be hooked together to achieve the necessary length. No individual length of lifeline may be less than 50 feet in length. The assembled lifeline shall have a minimum breaking strength of 1,500 pounds. 


(e) All equipment shall be maintained in an operative condition, and it shall be the responsibility of the master and chief engineer to ascertain that a sufficient number of the crew are familiar with the operation of the equipment. 


(f) Boots and gloves shall be of rubber or other electrically nonconducting material. 


(g) The helmet shall provide effective protection against impact. 


(h) Protective clothing shall be of material that will protect the skin from the heat of fire and burns from scalding steam. The outer surface shall be water resistant. 



---

[N] [CGFR 67-83, 33 FR 1156, Jan. 27, 1968, as amended by CGFR 69-72, 34 FR 17504, Oct. 29, 1969; CGD 82-042, 53 FR 17706, May 18, 1988; CGD 86-036, 57 FR 48327, Oct. 23, 1992; USCG-1999-5151, 64 FR 67187, Dec. 1, 1999]




