# § 99.13   What are the confidentiality determinations and related procedures for this part?

This section characterizes various categories of information for purposes of making confidentiality determinations, as follows:


(a) This paragraph (a) applies the definition of “Emission data” in 40 CFR 2.301(a)(2)(i) for information reported under this part. “Emission data” cannot be treated as confidential business information and shall be available to be disclosed to the public. The following categories of information qualify as emission data:


(1) Methane emission information, including the net WEC emissions, waste emissions thresholds, WEC applicable emissions, and the quantity of methane emissions to be exempted due to unreasonable delay and wells that were permanently shut-in and abandoned.


(2) Calculation methodology, including the method used to determine the quantity of methane emissions to be exempted due to an unreasonable permitting delay and the method used to quantify emissions exempted from permanently shut-in and plugged wells.


(3) Facility and unit identifier information, including WEC obligated party company name and address, signed and dated certification statements of the accuracy and completeness of the report, facility identifiers, industry segment, well-pad and/or well identifiers, and emission source-specific methane mitigation activities impacted by an unreasonable permitting delay.


(b) The following types of information are not eligible for confidential treatment:


(1) The WEC obligation, as calculated pursuant to § 99.24.


(2) Compliance information, including information regarding applicable emissions standards or other relevant standards of performance or requirements, information in construction or operating permits, and information submitted to document compliance with an emissions standard or a standard of performance, such as a periodic report, prepared and submitted in accordance with part 60 of this chapter, or an applicable approved State, Tribal, or Federal plan under part 62 of this chapter that implements the emission guidelines contained in part 60 of this chapter, (excluding any information redacted from the report and claimed as confidential).


(3) Published information that is publicly available, including information that is made available through publication of annual reports submitted under part 98 of this chapter, on company or other websites, or otherwise made publicly available.


(c) If you submit information that is not described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, you may claim the information as confidential and the information is subject to the process for confidentiality determinations in 40 CFR part 2 as described in §§ 2.201 through 2.208 of this chapter. You may be required to provide information to substantiate your claims. If claimed, the Administrator may consider this substantiating information to be confidential to the same degree as the information for which you are requesting confidential treatment. The determination will be based on your statements, the supporting information submitted, and any other available information. However, the Administrator may determine that your information is not subject to confidential treatment consistent with 40 CFR part 2 and 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4).


(d) Submitted applications and reports typically rely on software or templates to identify specific categories of information. If you submit information in a comment field designated for users to add general information, the Administrator will respond to requests for disclosing that information consistent with paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.




