# § 148.314   Periods during which eligible States may apply for a grant.

(a) *General rule.* A State that meets the eligibility requirements in § 148.310 may apply for a grant to fund losses that were incurred during the State's FYs 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009 in connection with the operation of its qualified high risk pool. Funding for FY 2007 through FY 2010 under the Extension Act requires subsequent enactment of appropriations authority. States will be unable to apply for grants unless and until such funding becomes available. Grants funding is on a retrospective basis and applies to the States previous fiscal year. If a State becomes eligible for a grant in the middle of its fiscal year, a State may apply for losses incurred in a partial fiscal year if a partial year audit is done. Only losses that are incurred after eligibility is established will qualify for a grant.


(b) *Maximum number of grants.* An eligible State may only be awarded a maximum of five grants, with one grant per fiscal year. A grant for a partial fiscal year counts as a full grant.


(c) *Deadline for submitting grant applications.* The deadlines for submitting grant applications are stated in § 148.316(d).


(d) *Distribution of grant funds.* States that meet all of the eligibility requirements in § 148.310 and submit timely requests in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section will receive an initial distribution of grant funds using the following methodology: Grant applications for losses will be on a retrospective basis. For example, grant applications for 2006 funds are based on the State's FY 2005 incurred losses. Grant funding was appropriated for Federal FY 2006 and is authorized to be appropriated for Federal FYs 2008 through 2010.


(e) *Grant allocations.* Grant allocations for each fiscal year will be determined by taking all grant applications during the period for which States are applying and allocating the funds in accordance with § 148.312.


(1) In no case will a State receive funds greater than 100 percent of their losses.


(2) If any excess funds remain after the initial calculation, these excess funds will be proportionately redistributed to the States whose allocations have not exceeded 100 percent of their losses.



---

[N] [73 FR 22285, Apr. 25, 2008]




