# § 721.11655   Phenoxanthiinium, 10-phenyl, 5-alkyl-2-alkyl-4-(2,4,6-substituted tri-carbomonocycle, hetero-acid) benzenesulfonate (1:1) (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as phenoxanthiinium, 10-phenyl, 5-alkyl-2-alkyl-4-(2,4,6-substituted tri-carbomonocycle, hetero-acid) benzenesulfonate (1:1) (PMN P-20-159) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to quantities of the substance after they have been completely reacted or adhered (during photolithographic processes) onto a semiconductor wafer surface or similar manufactured article used in the production of semiconductor technologies.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i) and (iii), (a)(3), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible.


(ii) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (f), (g)(1), (g)(2)(i) through (iii) and (v), (g)(3)(i) and (ii), and (g)(5). For purposes of § 721.72(e), the concentration is set at 1%. For purposes of § 721.72(g)(1), this substance may cause: skin irritation; acute toxicity; skin sensitization; serious eye damage; specific target organ toxicity; neurotoxicity; genetic toxicity; reproductive toxicity. Alternative hazard and warning statements that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(f), (k), and (t). It is a significant new use to import the substance other than in solution, unless in sealed containers weighing 5 kilograms or less. It is a significant new use to process the substance in any way that generates dust, mist, or aerosol in a non-enclosed process. It is a significant new use to manufacture the substance longer than 18 months.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitation or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.11 apply to paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section.





---

[N] [87 FR 59004, Sept. 29, 2022]










