# § 21.6021   Nonduplication—38 U.S.C., chapters 30, 31, 32, 34 and 35.

(a) *Election between this temporary program and chapter 31 required.* A service-disabled veteran awarded VA pension who is offered a vocational training program under 38 U.S.C. chapter 15 and is also eligible for such assistance under chapter 31, must elect which benefit he or she will receive. The veteran may reelect at any time if he or she is still eligible for the benefit desired.


(b) *VA educational assistance programs.* A veteran who is eligible under this program may receive an educational assistance allowance under chapter 30, 32, 34 or 35 if he or she is otherwise eligible under one of these programs.


(c) *Prior training under VA programs.* If a veteran has pursued an educational or training program under chapter 30, 32, 34 or 35, or a vocational rehabilitation program under chapter 31, the training received in the earlier program shall be considered, to the extent feasible, in determining the character and duration of the services to be furnished under this program.


(d) *Other prior training.* If a veteran has pursued other significant training under non-VA programs or on his or her own, such training will be considered in determining the character and duration of services to be furnished.


(e) *Not limited by use of other entitlement.* The number of months of services provided under this program are not subject to the provisions of § 21.4020 of this part which limit the aggregate months of VA benefits to be provided.



---

[N] [53 FR 4397, Feb. 16, 1988, as amended at 55 FR 17272, Apr. 24, 1990]




