# § 416.1148   If you have both in-kind support and maintenance and income that is deemed to you.

(a) *The one-third reduction and deeming of income.* If you live in the household of your spouse, parent, essential person, or sponsor whose income can be deemed to you, or the household of a parent whose income is not deemed to you because of the provisions of § 416.1165(i), the one-third reduction does not apply to you. The rules on deeming income are in §§ 416.1160 through 416.1169. However, if you live in another person's household as described in § 416.1131, and someone whose income can be deemed to you lives in the same household, we must apply both the one-third reduction and the deeming rules to you.


(b) *The presumed value rule and deeming of income.* (1) If you live in the same household with someone whose income can be deemed to you (§§ 416.1160 through 416.1169), or with a parent whose income is not deemed to you because of the provisions of § 416.1165(i), any shelter that person provides is not income to you. However, if you receive any shelter from another source, it is income and we value it under the presumed value rule (§ 416.1140). We also apply the deeming rules.


(2) If you are a child under age 18 who lives in the same household with an ineligible parent whose income may be deemed to you, and you are temporarily absent from the household to attend school (§ 416.1167(b)), any shelter you receive at school is income to you unless your parent purchases it. Unless otherwise excluded, we value this income under the presumed value rule (§ 416.1140). We also apply the deeming rules to you (§ 416.1165).



---

[N] [60 FR 361, Jan. 4, 1995, as amended at 70 FR 6345, Feb. 7, 2005; 89 FR 21211, Mar. 27, 2024]




