# § 30.100   In general, how does an employee file an initial claim for benefits?

(a) To claim benefits under EEOICPA, an employee must file a claim in writing with OWCP. Form EE-1 should be used for this purpose, but any written communication that requests benefits under EEOICPA will be considered a claim. It will, however, be necessary for an employee to submit a Form EE-1 for OWCP to fully develop the claim. Copies of Form EE-1 may be obtained from OWCP or on the internet at *http://www.dol.gov/owcp/energy/index.htm.* The employee must sign the written claim that is filed with OWCP, but another person may present the claim to OWCP on the employee's behalf.


(b) The employee may choose, at his or her own option, to file for benefits for only certain conditions that are potentially compensable under the Act (*e.g.*, the employee may not want to claim for an occupational illness or a covered illness for which a payment has been received that would necessitate an offset of EEOICPA benefits under the provisions of § 30.505(b) of these regulations). The employee may withdraw his or her claim by so requesting in writing to OWCP at any time before OWCP determines his or her eligibility for benefits.


(c) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, a claim is considered to be “filed” on the date that the employee mails his or her claim to OWCP, as determined by postmark or other carrier's date marking, or on the date that the claim is received by OWCP, whichever is the earliest determinable date. However, in no event will a claim under Part B of EEOICPA be considered to be “filed” earlier than July 31, 2001, nor will a claim under Part E of EEOICPA be considered to be “filed” earlier than October 30, 2000.


(1) The employee shall affirm that the information provided on the Form EE-1 is true, and must inform OWCP of any subsequent changes to that information.


(2) Except for a covered uranium employee filing a claim under Part B of the Act, the employee is responsible for submitting with his or her claim, or arranging for the submission of, medical evidence to OWCP that establishes that he or she sustained an occupational illness and/or a covered illness. This required medical evidence is described in § 30.114 and does not refer to mere recitations of symptoms the employee experienced that the employee believes indicate that he or she sustained an occupational illness or a covered illness.


(d) For those claims under Part E of EEOICPA that were originally filed with DOE as claims for assistance under former section 7385o of EEOICPA (which was repealed on October 28, 2004), a claim is considered to be “filed” on the date that the employee mailed his or her claim to DOE, as determined by postmark or other carrier's date marking, or on the date that the claim was received by DOE, whichever is the earliest determinable date. However, in no event will a claim referred to in this paragraph be considered to be “filed” earlier than October 30, 2000.



---

[N] [71 FR 78534, Dec. 29, 2006, as amended at 84 FR 3047, Feb. 8, 2019]








