# ยง 1304.14   Tribal government consultation under the Designation Renewal System for when an Indian Head Start grant is being considered for competition.

(a) In the case of an Indian Head Start agency determined not to be delivering a high-quality and comprehensive Head Start program, the responsible HHS official will engage in government-to-government consultation with the appropriate Tribal government or governments for the purpose of establishing a plan to improve the quality of the Head Start program operated by the Indian Head Start agency.


(1) The plan will be established and implemented within six months after the responsible HHS official's determination.


(2) Not more than six months after the implementation of that plan, the responsible HHS official will reevaluate the performance of the Indian Head Start agency.


(3) If the Indian Head Start agency is still not delivering a high-quality and comprehensive Head Start program, the responsible HHS official will conduct an open competition to select a grant recipient to provide services for the community currently being served by the Indian Head Start agency.


(b) A non-Indian Head Start agency will not be eligible to receive a grant to carry out an Indian Head Start program, unless there is no Indian Head Start agency available for designation to carry out an Indian Head Start program.


(c) A non-Indian Head Start agency may receive a grant to carry out an Indian Head Start program only until such time as an Indian Head Start agency in such community becomes available and is designated pursuant to this part.



---

[N] [81 FR 61412, Sept. 6, 2016, as amended at 89 FR 67817, Aug. 21, 2024]






