# § 165.507   Security Zone; Chesapeake Bay, between Sandy Point and Kent Island, MD.

(a) *Definitions.* The “Captain of the Port, Maryland-National Capital Region” means the Commander, Coast Guard Sector Maryland-National Capital Region or any Coast Guard commissioned, warrant, or petty officer who has been authorized by the Captain of the Port, Maryland-National Capital Region to act on his or her behalf.


(b) *Location.* The following area is a security zone: All waters of the Chesapeake Bay, from the surface to the bottom, within 250 yards north of the north (westbound) span of the William P. Lane Jr. Memorial Bridge, and 250 yards south of the south (eastbound) span of the William P. Lane Jr. Memorial Bridge, from the western shore at Sandy Point to the eastern shore at Kent Island, Maryland.


(c) *Regulations.* (1) All persons are required to comply with the general regulations governing security zones found in § 165.33 of this part.


(2) Entry into or remaining in this zone is prohibited unless authorized by the Coast Guard Captain of the Port, Maryland-National Capital Region.


(3) Persons or vessels requiring entry into or passage through the security zone must first request authorization from the Captain of the Port, Sector Maryland-National Capital Region seek permission to transit the area. The Captain of the Port, Maryland-National Capital Region can be contacted at telephone number (410) 576-2693. The Coast Guard vessels enforcing this section can be contacted on VHF Marine Band Radio, VHF channel 16 (156.8 MHz). Upon being hailed by a U.S. Coast Guard vessel by siren, radio, flashing light, or other means, the operator of a vessel shall proceed as directed. If permission is granted, all persons and vessels must comply with the instructions of the Captain of the Port, Maryland-National Capital Region and proceed at the minimum speed necessary to maintain a safe course while within the zone.


(d) *Enforcement.* The U.S. Coast Guard may be assisted in the patrol and enforcement of the zone by Federal, State, and local agencies.


(e) *Enforcement period.* This section will be enforced annually on the second Sunday in November from 7 a.m. to 11 a.m., and if necessary due to inclement weather, on the third Sunday in November from 7 a.m. to 11 a.m.



---

[N] [USCG-2014-0296, 79 FR 49690, Aug. 22, 2014, as amended by USCG-2016-0060, 81 FR 38594, June 14, 2016]




