# ยง 194.10-5   Type and location.

(a) *Integral magazines.* (1) Magazines shall be of permanent construction located below the freeboard deck and where practicable below the waterline. 


(2) Magazines shall not be located in horizontal proximity to or below accommodation spaces. 


(3) Magazines shall not be located adjacent to the collision bulkhead, nor in bearing with a bulkhead forming the boilerroom, engineroom, gallery, or other high fire hazard area boundary. If it is necessary to construct the magazine in proximity to these areas, a cofferdam space of at least 2 feet shall be provided between the bulkhead or deck involved and the magazine. Such a cofferdam shall be provided with suitable ventilation and shall not be used for storage purposes. 


(b) *Magazine vans.* (1) Magazine vans may be installed on deck in a location protected from boarding seas. The location selected shall not impair access to accommodations or other spaces necessary to the safe working and navigation of the vessel and shall not be within 15 feet of ventilation terminals emitting warm air or hazardous vapors, such as from galleys and pumprooms, or within 10 feet of any unshielded radio apparatus or antenna lead. 


(2) Magazine vans may be installed below decks in holds provided the hold location meets the location requirements for integral magazines. The cofferdam requirement of paragraph (a)(3) of this section is considered as fulfilled if the van is of steel construction. Holds so utilized shall not be used for stowage of other hazardous materials covered by 49 CFR parts 171-179. The stowage of other explosives or oxidizing materials in the same hold is permitted in accordance with the requirements of 49 CFR part 176.


(c) *Magazine chests.* (1) Magazine chests shall be located on the weather decks in a position suitable for jettisoning the contents. 


(2) Magazine chests shall be set off at least 4 inches from decks and deckhouse. 


(3) Magazine chests shall not be located within 15 feet of ventilation terminals emitting warm air or hazardous vapors, such as from galleys and pumprooms. 


(4) Magazine chests intended for the stowage of blasting caps, detonators, or boosters, in addition to the requirements in this paragraph, shall not be stowed within 10 feet of any unshielded radio apparatus or antenna leads. 



---

[N] [CGFR 67-83, 33 FR 1151, Jan. 27, 1968, as amended by CGD 86-033, 53 FR 36027, Sept. 16, 1988]




