# ยง 416.919a   When we will purchase a consultative examination and how we will use it.

(a) *General.* If we cannot get the information we need from your medical sources, we may decide to purchase a consultative examination. See ยง 416.912 for the procedures we will follow to obtain evidence from your medical sources and ยง 416.920b for how we consider evidence. Before purchasing a consultative examination, we will consider not only existing medical reports, but also the disability interview form containing your allegations as well as other pertinent evidence in your file.


(b) *Situations that may require a consultative examination.* We may purchase a consultative examination to try to resolve an inconsistency in the evidence or when the evidence as a whole is insufficient to support a determination or decision on your claim. Some examples of when we might purchase a consultative examination to secure needed medical evidence, such as clinical findings, laboratory tests, a diagnosis, or prognosis, include but are not limited to:


(1) The additional evidence needed is not contained in the records of your medical sources;


(2) The evidence that may have been available from your treating or other medical sources cannot be obtained for reasons beyond your control, such as death or noncooperation of a medical source;


(3) Highly technical or specialized medical evidence that we need is not available from your treating or other medical sources; or


(4) There is an indication of a change in your condition that is likely to affect your ability to work, or, if you are a child, your functioning, but the current severity of your impairment is not established.



---

[N] [56 FR 36964, Aug. 1, 1991, as amended at 62 FR 6421, Feb. 11, 1997; 77 FR 10656, Feb. 23, 2012]




