# § 103.1   Key definitions.

(a) *Agent* means an authorized representative, including an attorney, accountant, consultant, packager, lender service provider, or any other person representing an Applicant or Participant by conducting business with SBA.


(b) The term *conduct business with SBA* means: 


(1) Preparing or submitting on behalf of an applicant an application for financial assistance of any kind, assistance from the Investment Division of SBA, or assistance in procurement and technical matters; 


(2) Preparing or processing on behalf of a lender or a participant in any of SBA's programs an application for federal financial assistance; 


(3) Participating with or communicating in any way with officers or employees of SBA on an applicant's, participant's, or lender's behalf; 


(4) Acting as a lender service provider; and 


(5) Such other activity as SBA reasonably shall determine. 


(c) *Applicant* means any person, firm, concern, corporation, partnership, cooperative or other business enterprise applying for any type of assistance from SBA. 


(d) *Lender Service Provider* means an Agent who carries out lender functions in originating, disbursing, servicing, or liquidating a specific SBA business loan or loan portfolio for compensation from the lender. SBA determines whether or not one is a “Lender Service Provider” on a loan-by-loan basis.


(e) *Packager* means an Agent who is employed and compensated by an Applicant or lender to prepare the Applicant's application for financial assistance from SBA. SBA determines whether or not one is a “Packager” on a loan-by-loan basis.


(f) *Referral Agent* means a person or entity who identifies and refers an Applicant to a lender or a lender to an Applicant. The Referral Agent may be employed and compensated by either an Applicant or a lender.


(g) *Participant* means a person or entity that is participating in any of the financial, investment, or business development programs authorized by the Small Business Act or Small Business Investment Act of 1958.



---

[N] [61 FR 2681, Jan. 29, 1996, as amended at 85 FR 7647, Feb. 10, 2020; 85 FR 80587, Dec. 14, 2020] 




