# § 174.2   Applicability of provisions.

(a) *In general.* The provisions of this part shall be applicable to protests against decisions involving: 


(1) Articles excluded from entry or entered or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption on or after October 1, 1970; 


(2) Articles entered or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption prior to October 1, 1970, for which appraisement has not become final by October 1, 1970; 


(3) Articles entered or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption prior to October 1, 1970, for which the appraisement has become final but with respect to which the entry has not been liquidated prior to October 1, 1970; 


(4) Articles entered or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption with respect to which the entry has been liquidated prior to October 1, 1970, if 


(i) The time for filing a protest has not expired and a protest has not been filed prior to October 1, 1970; or 


(ii) A protest has been filed and has not been disallowed in whole or in part before October 1, 1970; or 


(5) Articles excluded from entry before October 1, 1970, with respect to which 


(i) The time for filing a protest has not expired and a protest has not been filed prior to October 1, 1970; or 


(ii) A protest has been filed and has not been disallowed in whole or in part before October 1, 1970. 


(b) *Limitation*—(1) *Appraisement not final.* When the appraisement of articles entered or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption prior to October 1, 1970, is not final by October 1, 1970, because an appeal for reappraisement was timely filed prior to such date, the provisions of this part relating to protests shall be applicable to a protest filed after the court's decision on the appeal to reappraisement has become final. Such protest shall not include issues which were raised or could have been raised on the appeal for reappraisement. 


(2) *Appraisement final.* When the appraisement of articles entered or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption prior to October 1, 1970, has become final prior to October 1, 1970, but the entry has not been liquidated by such date, a protest filed in accordance with the provisions of this part after such liquidation shall not include issues which were raised or could have been raised on an appeal to reappraisement before the appraisement became final. 


(3) *Protest not disallowed.* When a protest filed prior to October 1, 1970, has not been disallowed in whole or in part before such date, the provisions of this part shall be applicable to such protests. The time within which any action must be taken under the provisions of this part with respect to such a protest shall commence on the date the protest was in fact filed. 



---

[N] [T.D. 70-181, 35 FR, 13429, Aug. 22, 1970, as amended by T.D. 71-60, 36 FR 3116, Feb. 18, 1971]




