# ยง 576.201   Matching requirement.

(a) The recipient must make matching contributions to supplement the recipient's ESG program in an amount that equals the recipient's fiscal year grant for ESG. This amount may include contributions to any project under the recipient's ESG program, including any subrecipient's ESG project, if the requirements in this section are met. The first $100,000 of a State's fiscal year grant is not required to be matched, but the benefit of this exception must pass to the state's subrecipients that are least capable of providing matching contributions. The match requirements under this section do not apply if the recipient is a territory.


(b) To be recognized as match for ESG, each contribution must meet the requirements under 2 CFR 200.306, except that:


(1) Notwithstanding 2 CFR 200.306(b)(4), matching contributions are not subject to the expenditure limits in ยง 576.100; and


(2) Notwithstanding 2 CFR 200.306(b)(5), the recipient may use funds from another Federal program as match for ESG, unless doing so would violate a specific statutory prohibition or the recipient or subrecipient counts ESG funds as match for that program.


(c) The recipient may count as match the value specified in 2 CFR 200.306(d) for any building the recipient or subrecipient donates for long-term use in the recipient's ESG program, provided that depreciation on the building is not counted as match or charged to any Federal award. If a third party donates a building to the recipient or subrecipient, the recipient may count as match either depreciation of the building and fair rental charges for the land for each year the building is used for the recipient's ESG program or, if the building is donated for long-term use in the recipient's ESG program, the fair market value of the capital assets, as specified in 2 CFR 200.306(h)(2), (i), and (j). To qualify as a donation for long-term use, the donation must be evidenced by a recorded deed or use restriction that is effective for at least 10 years after the donation date. If the donated building is renovated with ESG funds, the minimum period of use under ยง 576.102(c) may increase the period for which the building must be used in the recipient's ESG program.


(d) *Eligible types of matching contributions.* The matching requirement may be met by one or both of the following:


(1) *Cash contributions.* Cash expended for allowable costs, as defined in OMB Circulars A-87 (2 CFR part 225) and A-122 (2 CFR part 230), of the recipient or subrecipient.


(2) *Noncash contributions.* The value of any real property, equipment, goods, or services contributed to the recipient's or subrecipient's ESG program, provided that if the recipient or subrecipient had to pay for them with grant funds, the costs would have been allowable. Noncash contributions may also include the purchase value of any donated building.


(e) *Calculating the amount of noncash contributions.* (1) To determine the value of any donated material or building, or of any lease, the recipient must use a method reasonably calculated to establish the fair market value.


(2) Services provided by individuals must be valued at rates consistent with those ordinarily paid for similar work in the recipient's or subrecipient's organization. If the recipient or subrecipient does not have employees performing similar work, the rates must be consistent with those ordinarily paid by other employers for similar work in the same labor market.


(3) Some noncash contributions are real property, equipment, goods, or services that, if the recipient or subrecipient had to pay for them with grant funds, the payments would have been indirect costs. Matching credit for these contributions must be given only if the recipient or subrecipient has established, along with its regular indirect cost rate, a special rate for allocating to individual projects or programs the value of those contributions.


(f) *Costs paid by program income.* Costs paid by program income shall count toward meeting the recipient's matching requirements, provided the costs are eligible ESG costs that supplement the recipient's ESG program.



---

[N] [76 FR 75974, Dec. 5, 2011, as amended at 80 FR 75939, Dec. 7, 2015]




