# § 63.751   Monitoring requirements.

(a) *Enclosed spray gun cleaners.* Each owner or operator using an enclosed spray gun cleaner under § 63.744(c)(1) shall visually inspect the seals and all other potential sources of leaks associated with each enclosed gun spray cleaner system at least once per month. Each inspection shall occur while the system is in operation. 


(b) *Incinerators and carbon adsorbers—initial compliance demonstrations.* Each owner or operator subject to the requirements in this subpart must demonstrate initial compliance with the requirements of §§ 63.745(d), 63.746(c), and 63.747(d) of this subpart. Each owner or operator using a carbon adsorber to comply with the requirements in this subpart shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (7) of this section. Each owner or operator using an incinerator to comply with the requirements in this subpart shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(8) through (12) of this section. 


(1) Except as allowed by paragraph (b)(2) or (b)(5) of this section, for each control device used to control organic HAP or VOC emissions, the owner or operator shall fulfill the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) (i) or (ii) of this section. 


(i) The owner or operator shall establish as a site-specific operating parameter the outlet total HAP or VOC concentration that demonstrates compliance with § 63.745(d), § 63.746(c), or § 63.747(d) as appropriate; or 


(ii) The owner or operator shall establish as the site-specific operating parameter the control device efficiency that demonstrates compliance with § 63.745(d), § 63.746(c), or § 63.747(d). 


(iii) When a nonregenerative carbon adsorber is used to comply with § 63.745(d), § 63.746(c), or § 63.747(d), the site-specific operating parameter value may be established as part of the design evaluation used to demonstrate initial compliance. Otherwise, the site-specific operating parameter value shall be established during the initial performance test conducted according to the procedures of § 63.750(g). 


(2) For each nonregenerative carbon adsorber, in lieu of meeting the requirements of § 63.751(b)(1), the owner or operator may establish as the site-specific operating parameter the carbon replacement time interval, as determined by the maximum design flow rate and organic concentration in the gas stream vented to the carbon adsorption system. The carbon replacement time interval shall be established either as part of the design evaluation to demonstrate initial compliance or during the initial performance test conducted according to the procedures in § 63.750(g) (1), (2), (3), or (4). 


(3) Each owner or operator venting solvent HAP emissions from a source through a room, enclosure, or hood, to a control device to comply with § 63.745(d), § 63.746(c), or § 63.747(d) shall: 


(i) Submit to the Administrator with the compliance status report required by § 63.9(h) of the General Provisions a plan that: 


(A) Identifies the operating parameter to be monitored to ensure that the capture efficiency measured during the initial compliance test is maintained; 


(B) Discusses why this parameter is appropriate for demonstrating ongoing compliance; and 


(C) Identifies the specific monitoring procedures; 


(ii) Set the operating parameter value, or range of values, that demonstrate compliance with § 63.745(d), § 63.746(c), or § 63.747(d), as appropriate; and 


(iii) Conduct monitoring in accordance with the plan submitted to the Administrator unless comments received from the Administrator require an alternate monitoring scheme. 


(4) Owners or operators subject to § 63.751(b) (1), (2), or (3) shall calculate the site-specific operating parameter value, or range of values, as the arithmetic average of the maximum and/or minimum operating parameter values, as appropriate, that demonstrate compliance with § 63.745(d), § 63.746(c), or § 63.747(d) during the multiple test runs required by § 63.750 (g)(2) and (g)(1). 


(5) For each solvent recovery device used to comply with § 63.745(d), § 63.746(c), or § 63.747(d), in lieu of meeting the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the results of the material balance calculation conducted in accordance with § 63.750(g)(1) may serve as the site-specific operating parameter that demonstrates compliance with § 63.745(d), § 63.746(c), or § 63.747(d). 


(6) *Continuous compliance monitoring.* Following the date on which the initial compliance demonstration is completed, continuous compliance with § 63.745(d), § 63.746(c), or § 63.747(d) of this subpart shall be demonstrated as outlined in this paragraph. 


(i) Each owner or operator of an affected source subject to § 63.745(d), § 63.746(c), or § 63.747(d) of this subpart shall monitor the applicable parameters specified in paragraph (b)(6)(ii), (b)(6)(iii), or (b)(6)(iv) of this section depending on the type of control technique used. 


(ii) Compliance monitoring shall be subject to the following provisions: 


(A) Except as allowed by paragraph (b)(6)(iii)(A)(*2*) of this section, all continuous emission monitors shall comply with performance specification (PS) 8 or 9 in 40 CFR part 60, appendix B, as appropriate depending on whether VOC or HAP concentration is being measured. The requirements in appendix F of 40 CFR part 60 shall also be followed. In conducting the quarterly audits required by appendix F, owners or operators shall challenge the monitors with compounds representative of the gaseous emission stream being controlled. 


(B) If the effluent from multiple emission points are combined prior to being channeled to a common control device, the owner or operator is required only to monitor the common control device, not each emission point. 


(iii) Owners or operators complying with § 63.745(d), § 63.746(c), or § 63.747(d) through the use of a control device and establishing a site-specific operating parameter in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall fulfill the requirements of paragraph (b)(6)(iii)(A) of this section and paragraph (b)(6)(iii)(B) or (C) of this section, as appropriate.


(A) The owner or operator shall install, calibrate, operate, and maintain a continuous emission monitor. 


(*1*) The continuous emission monitor shall be used to measure continuously the total HAP or VOC concentration at both the inlet and the outlet whenever HAP from coating and paint stripping operations are vented to the control device, or when continuous compliance is demonstrated through a percent efficiency calculation; or 


(*2*) For owners or operators using a nonregenerative carbon adsorber, in lieu of using continuous emission monitors as specified in paragraph (b)(6)(iii)(A)(*1*) of this section, the owner or operator may use a portable monitoring device to monitor total HAP or VOC concentration at the inlet and outlet or the outlet of the carbon adsorber as appropriate. 


(*a*) The monitoring device shall be calibrated, operated, and maintained in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications. 


(*b*) The monitoring device shall meet the requirements of part 60, appendix A, Method 21, sections 2, 3, 4.1, 4.2, and 4.4. The calibration gas shall either be representative of the compounds to be measured or shall be methane, and shall be at a concentration associated with 125% of the expected organic compound concentration level for the carbon adsorber outlet vent. 


(*c*) The probe inlet of the monitoring device shall be placed at approximately the center of the carbon adsorber outlet vent. The probe shall be held there for at least 5 minutes during which flow into the carbon adsorber is expected to occur. The maximum reading during that period shall be used as the measurement. 


(B) If complying with § 63.745(d), § 63.746(c), or § 63.747(d) through the use of a carbon adsorption system with a common exhaust stack for all of the carbon vessels, the owner or operator shall not operate the control device at an average control efficiency less than that required by § 63.745(d), § 63.746(c), or § 63.747(d) for three consecutive adsorption cycles. 


(C) If complying with § 63.745(d), § 63.746(c), or § 63.747(d) through the use of a carbon adsorption system with individual exhaust stacks for each of the multiple carbon adsorber vessels, the owner or operator shall not operate any carbon adsorber vessel at an average control efficiency less than that required by § 63.745(d), § 63.746(c), or § 63.747(d) as calculated daily using a 7 to 30-day rolling average. 


(D) If complying with § 63.745(d), § 63.746(c), or § 63.747(d) through the use of a nonregenerative carbon adsorber, in lieu of the requirements of paragraph (b)(6)(iii) (B) or (C) of this section, the owner or operator may monitor the VOC or HAP concentration of the adsorber exhaust daily, at intervals no greater than 20 percent of the design carbon replacement interval, whichever is greater, or at a frequency as determined by the owner or operator and approved by the Administrator.


(iv) Owners or operators complying with § 63.745(d), § 63.746(c), or § 63.747(d) through the use of a nonregenerative carbon adsorber and establishing a site-specific operating parameter for the carbon replacement time interval in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) shall replace the carbon in the carbon adsorber system with fresh carbon at the predetermined time interval as determined in the design evaluation.


(v) Owners or operators complying with § 63.745(d), § 63.746(c), or § 63.747(d) by capturing emissions through a room, enclosure, or hood shall install, calibrate, operate, and maintain the instrumentation necessary to measure continuously the site-specific operating parameter established in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section whenever VOC and HAP from coating and stripper operations are vented through the capture device. The capture device shall not be operated at an average value greater than or less than (as appropriate) the operating parameter value established in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section for any 3-hour period. 


(7) Owners or operators complying with paragraph (b)(4) or (b)(5) of this section shall calculate the site-specific operating parameter value as the arithmetic average of the minimum operating parameter values that demonstrate compliance with § 63.745(d)and § 63.747(d) during the three test runs required by § 63.750(h)(2)(iv). 


(8) All temperature monitoring equipment shall be installed, calibrated, maintained, and operated according to manufacturer's specifications. Every 3 months, facilities shall replace the temperature sensors or have the temperature sensors recalibrated. As an alternative, a facility may use a continuous emission monitoring system (CEMS) to verify that there has been no change in the destruction efficiency and effluent composition of the incinerator.


(9) Where an incinerator other than a catalytic incinerator is used, a thermocouple equipped with a continuous recorder shall be installed and continuously operated in the firebox or in the ductwork immediately downstream of the firebox in a position before any substantial heat exchange occurs. 


(10) Where a catalytic incinerator is used, thermocouples, each equipped with a continuous recorder, shall be installed and continuously operated in the gas stream immediately before and after the catalyst bed. 


(11) For each incinerator other than a catalytic incinerator, each owner or operator shall establish during each performance test during which compliance is demonstrated, including the initial performance test, the minimum combustion temperature as a site-specific operating parameter. This minimum combustion temperature shall be the operating parameter value that demonstrates compliance with §§ 63.745(d) and 63.747(d). 


(12) For each catalytic incinerator, each owner or operator shall establish during each performance test during which compliance is demonstrated, including the initial performance test, the minimum gas temperature upstream of the catalyst bed and the minimum gas temperature difference across the catalyst bed as site-specific operating parameters. These minimum temperatures shall be the operating parameter values that demonstrate compliance with §§ 63.745(d) and 63.747(d). 


(c) *Dry particulate filter, HEPA filter, and waterwash systems—primer, topcoat, and specialty coating application operations*. (1) Each owner or operator using a dry particulate filter system to meet the requirements of § 63.745(g)(2) shall, while primer, topcoat, and specialty coating application operations are occurring, continuously monitor the pressure drop across the system and read and record the pressure drop once per shift following the recordkeeping requirements of § 63.752(d), or install an interlock system as specified in § 63.745(g)(2)(iv)(C).


(2) Each owner or operator using a conventional waterwash system to meet the requirements of § 63.745(g)(2) shall, while primer or topcoat application operations are occurring, continuously monitor the water flow rate through the system and read and record the water flow rate once per shift following the recordkeeping requirements of § 63.752(d), or install an interlock system as specified in § 63.745(g)(2)(v). Each owner or operator using a pumpless waterwash system to meet the requirements of § 63.745(g)(2) shall, while primer, topcoat, and specialty coating application operations are occurring, measure and record the parameter(s) recommended by the booth manufacturer that indicate booth performance once per shift, following the recordkeeping requirements of § 63.752(d), or install an interlock system as specified in § 63.745(g)(2)(v).


(d) *Particulate filters and waterwash booths—depainting operations.* Each owner or operator using a dry particulate filter or a conventional waterwash system in accordance with the requirements of § 63.746(b)(4) shall, while depainting operations are occurring, continuously monitor the pressure drop across the particulate filters or the water flow rate through the conventional waterwash system and read and record the pressure drop or the water flow rate once per shift following the recordkeeping requirements of § 63.752(e). Each owner or operator using a pumpless waterwash system to meet the requirements of § 63.746(b)(4) shall, while depainting operations are occurring, measure and record the parameter(s) recommended by the booth manufacturer that indicate booth performance once per shift, following the recordkeeping requirements of § 63.752(e).


(e) *Use of an alternative monitoring method*—(1) *General.* Until permission to use an alternative monitoring method has been granted by the Administrator under this paragraph, the owner or operator of an affected source shall remain subject to the requirements of this section. 


(2) After receipt and consideration of written application, the Administrator may approve alternatives to any monitoring methods or procedures of this section including, but not limited to, the following: 


(i) Alternative monitoring requirements when the affected source is infrequently operated; or 


(ii) Alternative locations for installing continuous monitoring systems when the owner or operator can demonstrate that installation at alternate locations will enable accurate and representative measurements; or 


(iii) Alternatives to the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) test methods or sampling procedures specified in this section. 


(3) If the Administrator finds reasonable grounds to dispute the results obtained by an alternative monitoring method, requirement, or procedure, the Administrator may require the use of a method, requirement, or procedure specified in this section. If the results of the specified and the alternative method, requirement, or procedure do not agree, the results obtained by the specified method, requirement, or procedure shall prevail. 


(4)(i) *Request to use alternative monitoring method.* An owner or operator who wishes to use an alternative monitoring method shall submit an application to the Administrator as described in paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section. The application may be submitted at any time provided that the monitoring method is not used to demonstrate compliance with a relevant standard or other requirement. If the alternative monitoring method is to be used to demonstrate compliance with a relevant standard, the application shall be submitted not later than with the site-specific test plan required in § 63.7(c) (if requested) or with the site-specific performance evaluation plan (if requested), or at least 60 days before the performance evaluation is scheduled to begin. 


(ii) The application shall contain a description of the proposed alternative monitoring system and information justifying the owner's or operator's request for an alternative monitoring method, such as the technical or economic infeasibility, or the impracticality, of the affected source using the required method. 


(iii) The owner or operator may submit the information required in this paragraph well in advance of the submittal dates specified in paragraph (e)(4)(i) of this section to ensure a timely review by the Administrator in order to meet the compliance demonstration date specified in this subpart. 


(5) *Approval of request to use alternative monitoring method.* (i) The Administrator will notify the owner or operator of his/her intention to deny approval of the request to use an alternative monitoring method within 60 calendar days after receipt of the original request and within 60 calendar days after receipt of any supplementary information that is submitted. If notification of intent to deny approval is not received within 60 calendar days, the alternative monitoring method is to be considered approved. Before disapproving any request to use an alternative monitoring method, the Administrator will notify the applicant of the Administrator's intent to disapprove the request together with: 


(A) Notice of the information and findings on which the intended disapproval is based; and 


(B) Notice of opportunity for the owner or operator to present additional information to the Administrator before final action on the request. At the time the Administrator notifies the applicant of his or her intention to disapprove the request, the Administrator will specify how much time the owner or operator will have after being notified of the intended disapproval to submit the additional information. 


(ii) If the Administrator approves the use of an alternative monitoring method for an affected source under paragraph (e)(5)(i) of this section, the owner or operator of such source shall continue to use the alternative monitoring method until approval is received from the Administrator to use another monitoring method as allowed by paragraph (e) of this section. 


(f) *Reduction of monitoring data.* (1) The data may be recorded in reduced or nonreduced form (e.g., parts per million (ppm) pollutant and % O_2_ or nanograms per Joule (ng/J) of pollutant). 


(2) All emission data shall be converted into units specified in this subpart for reporting purposes. After conversion into units specified in this subpart, the data may be rounded to the same number of significant digits as used in this subpart to specify the emission limit (e.g., rounded to the nearest 1% overall reduction efficiency). 



---

[N] [60 FR 45956, Sept. 1, 1996, as amended at 63 FR 15023, Mar. 27, 1998; 63 FR 46534, Sept. 1, 1998; 65 FR 76945, Dec. 8, 2000; 80 FR 76186, Dec. 7, 2015]




