# ยง 15.14   Conduct of hearing.

(a) An administrative law judge appointed in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 3105 shall preside over the hearing.


(b) Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 556(b), the administrative law judge is to conduct all proceedings in an impartial manner. The administrative law judge may disqualify himself at any time. An individual may move to disqualify the appointed administrative law judge only upon the filing, in good faith, of a timely and sufficient affidavit of personal bias or other ground for disqualification of the administrative law judge, such as conflict of interest or financial interest. If such affidavit is timely filed, the adjudicating official shall determine the matter as part of the record and final determination in the case.


(c) The administrative law judge shall have the following powers:


(1) Administer oaths and affirmations;


(2) Issue subpoenas authorized by law;


(3) Rule on offers of proof and receive relevant evidence;


(4) Take depositions or have depositions taken when the ends of justice would be served;


(5) Regulate the course of the hearing;


(6) Hold conferences for the settlement or simplification of the issues by consent of the parties or by the use of alternative means of dispute resolution;


(7) Inform the parties as to the availability of one or more alternative means of dispute resolution, and encourage use of such methods;


(8) Dispose of procedural requests or similar matters;


(9) Make or recommend decisions;


(10) Require and, in the discretion of the administrative law judge, adopt proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law, and orders;


(11) Take any other action that administrative law judges are authorized by statute to take; and


(12) All powers and duties reasonably necessary to perform the functions enumerated in paragraphs (c)(1) through (11) of this section.


(d) The administrative law judge may call upon the parties to consider:


(1) Simplification or clarification of the issues;


(2) Stipulations, admissions, agreements on documents, or other understandings that will expedite conduct of the hearing;


(3) Limitation of the number of witnesses and of cumulative evidence; and


(4) Such other matters as may aid in the disposition of the case.


(e) At the discretion of the administrative law judge, parties or witnesses may participate in hearings by video conference.


(f) All hearings under this subpart shall be public unless otherwise ordered by the administrative law judge.


(g) The hearing shall be conducted in conformity with 5 U.S.C. 554-557 (sections 5-8 of the Administrative Procedure Act).


(h) The initiating official shall have the burden of going forward with the evidence and shall generally present the Government's evidence first.


(i) Technical rules of evidence shall not apply to hearings conducted pursuant to this subpart, but rules designed to assure production of the most credible evidence available and to subject testimony to cross-examination shall be applied where reasonably necessary by the administrative law judge. The administrative law judge may exclude irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious evidence. All documents and other evidence offered or taken for the record shall be open to examination by the parties, and opportunity shall be given to refute facts and arguments advanced on either side of the issues. A transcript shall be made of the oral evidence except to the extent the substance thereof is stipulated for the record.


(j) During the time a proceeding is pending before an administrative law judge, all motions shall be addressed to the administrative law judge and, if within the administrative law judge's delegated authority, shall be ruled upon. Any motion upon which the administrative law judge has no authority to rule shall be certified to the adjudicating official with a recommendation. The opposing party may answer within such time as may be designated by the administrative law judge. The administrative law judge may permit further replies by both parties.






