# ยง 7.23   Requests for recording assignments at the International Bureau.

A request to record an assignment of an international registration may be submitted through the Office for forwarding to the International Bureau only if the assignee cannot obtain the assignor's signature for the request to record the assignment.


(a) A request to record an assignment submitted through the Office must include all of the following:


(1) The international registration number;


(2) The name and address of the holder of the international registration;


(3) The name and address of the assignee of the international registration;


(4) A statement that the assignee: Is a national of the United States; has a domicile in the United States; or has a real and effective industrial or commercial establishment in the United States. Where an assignee's address is not in the United States, the assignee must provide the address of its U.S. domicile or establishment;


(5) A statement, signed and verified (sworn to) or supported by a declaration under ยง 2.20 of this chapter, that, for the request to record the assignment, either the assignee could not obtain the assignor's signature because the holder no longer exists, or, after a good-faith effort, the assignee could not obtain the assignor's signature;


(6) An indication that the assignment applies to the designation to the United States or an international registration that is based on a U.S. application or registration;


(7) A statement that the assignment applies to all the goods and/or services in the international registration, or if less, a list of the goods and/or services in the international registration that have been assigned that pertain to the designation to the United States; and


(8) The U.S. transmittal fee required by ยง 7.6.


(b) If a request to record an assignment contains all the elements set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, the Office will forward the request to the International Bureau. Forwarding the request to the International Bureau is not a determination by the Office of the validity of the assignment or the effect that the assignment has on the title of the international registration.


(c) If the request fails to contain all the elements set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, the Office will not forward the request to the International Bureau. The Office will notify the assignee(s) of the reason(s). If the assignee paid the fees to record the assignment (*see* ยง 7.7) through the Office, the Office will refund the recording fee. The Office will not refund the transmittal fee.


(d) Correspondence to correct any irregularities in a request to record an assignment must be made directly with the International Bureau.



---

[N] [68 FR 55769, Sept. 26, 2003, as amended at 69 FR 57186, Sept. 24, 2004; 80 FR 2313, Jan. 16, 2015]




