# § 192.13   Revocation of participants' AES post-departure (Option 4) filing privileges; appeal procedures.

(a) *Reasons for revocation.* Customs may revoke Option 4 privileges of participants for the following reasons:


(1) The exporter has made or caused to be made in the “Letter of Intent”, a false or misleading statement or omission with respect to any material fact;


(2) The exporter submitting the “Letter of Intent” is indicted, convicted, or is currently under an investigation, wherein Customs has developed probable cause, for a felony involving any Customs law or any export law administered by another government agency;


(3) The exporter fails to substantially comply with export regulations; or


(4) Continued participation in AES as an Option 4 filer would pose a threat to national security, such that continued participation in Option 4 should be terminated.


(b) *Notice of revocation; appeal procedures.* When Customs has decided to revoke a participant's Option 4 filing privileges, the participant will be notified in writing of the reason(s) for the decision. The participant may challenge Customs decision by filing an appeal within thirty (30) calendar days of receipt of the notice of decision. Except as stated elsewhere in this paragraph, the revocation will become effective when the participant has either exhausted all appeal proceedings or thirty (30) calendar days after receipt of the notice of revocation if no appeal is filed. However, in cases of intentional violations of any Customs law on the part of the program participant or when required by the national security, revocations will become effective immediately upon notification. Appeals should be addressed to the Director, Outbound Programs, U.S. Customs, Ronald Reagan Building, 1300 Pennsylvania Ave, NW, Room 5.4c, Washington, DC 20229. Customs will issue a written decision or notice of extension to the participant within thirty (30) calendar days of receipt of the appeal. If a notice of extension is forwarded, the applicant will be provided with the reason(s) for extension of this time period and an expected date of decision. Participants who have had their Option 4 filing privileges revoked and applicants not selected to participate in Option 4 of AES may not reapply for this filing status for one year following written notification of rejection or revocation.




