# § 766.25   Administrative action denying export privileges.

(a) *General.* The Director of the Office of Export Enforcement (OEE), in consultation with the Director of the Office of Exporter Services, may deny the export privileges of any person who has been convicted of a violation of any of the statutes set forth at 50 U.S.C. 4819(e)(1)(B), including any regulation, license, or order issued pursuant to such statutes.


(b) *Procedure.* Upon notification that a person has been convicted of a violation of one or more of the provisions specified in paragraph (a) of this section, the Director of OEE, in consultation with the Director of the Office of Exporter Services, will determine whether to deny such person export privileges, including but not limited to applying for, obtaining, or using any license, License Exception, or export control document; or participating in or benefitting in any way from any export or export-related transaction subject to the EAR. Before taking action to deny a person export privileges under this section, the Director of OEE will provide the person written notice of the proposed action and an opportunity to comment through a written submission, unless exceptional circumstances exist. In reviewing the response, the Director of OEE will consider any relevant or mitigating evidence why these privileges should not be denied. Upon final determination, the Director of OEE will notify by letter each person denied export privileges under this section.


(c) *Criteria.* In determining whether and for how long to deny U.S. export privileges to a person previously convicted of one or more of the statutes set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, the Director of OEE may take into consideration any relevant information, including, but not limited to, the seriousness of the offense involved in the criminal prosecution, the nature and duration of the criminal sanctions imposed, and whether the person has undertaken any corrective measures.


(d) *Duration.* Any denial of export privileges under this section shall not exceed 10 years from the date of the conviction of the person who is subject to the denial.


(e) *Effect.* Any person denied export privileges under this section will be considered a “person denied export privileges” for purposes of § 736.2(b)(4) (General Prohibition 4—Engage in actions prohibited by a denial order) and § 764.2(k) of the EAR.


(f) *Publication.* The orders denying export privileges under this section are published in the _Federal Register_ when issued, and, for the convenience of the public, information about those orders may be included in compilations maintained by BIS on a Web site and as a supplement to the unofficial edition of the EAR available by subscription from the Government Printing Office. 


(g) *Appeal.* An appeal of an action under this section will be pursuant to part 756 of the EAR.


(h) *Applicability to related person.* The Director of OEE, in consultation with the Director of the Office of Exporter Services, may take action in accordance with § 766.23 of this part to make applicable to related persons an order that is being sought or that has been issued under this section.



---

[N] [61 FR 12907, Mar. 25, 1996, as amended at 65 FR 14863, Mar. 20, 2000; 67 FR 54953, Aug. 27, 2002; 85 FR 73418, Nov. 18, 2020]




