# § 1805.200   Applicant eligibility.

(a) *General requirements.* (1) An entity that meets the requirements described in § 1805.201(b) and paragraph (b) of this section will be considered a CDFI and, subject to paragraph (a)(3) of this section, will be eligible to apply for assistance under this part.


(2)(i) An entity that proposes to become a CDFI is eligible to apply for assistance under this part if the CDFI Fund:


(A) Receives a complete application for certification from the entity within the time period set forth in an applicable Notice of Funds Availability; and


(B) Determines that such entity's application materials provide a realistic course of action to ensure that it will meet the requirements described in § 1805.201(b) and paragraph (b) of this section within the period set forth in an applicable Notice of Funds Availability.


(ii) The CDFI Fund will not, however, make a payment of any financial assistance to such an entity before or unless it meets the requirements described in this section. Moreover, notwithstanding paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2)(i)(B) of this section, the CDFI Fund reserves the right to require an entity to have been certified as described in § 1805.201(a) prior to its submission of an application for assistance, as set forth in an applicable Notice of Funds Availability.


(3) The CDFI Fund shall require an entity to meet any additional eligibility requirements that the CDFI Fund deems appropriate.


(4) The CDFI Fund, in its sole discretion, shall determine whether an entity fulfills the requirements set forth in this section and § 1805.201(b).


(b) *Provisions applicable to Depository Institution Holding Companies and Insured Depository Institutions.* (1) A Depository Institution Holding Company may qualify as a CDFI only if it and its Affiliates collectively satisfy the requirements described in this section.


(2) No Affiliate of a Depository Institution Holding Company may qualify as a CDFI unless the holding company and all of its Affiliates collectively meet the requirements described in this section.


(3) No Subsidiary of an Insured Depository Institution may qualify as a CDFI if the Insured Depository Institution and its Subsidiaries do not collectively meet the requirements described in this section.


(4) For the purposes of paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section, an entity will be considered to be a Subsidiary of any Insured Depository Institution or Depository Institution Holding Company that controls 25 percent or more of any class of the entity's voting shares, or otherwise controls, in any manner, the election of a majority of directors of the entity.




