# ยง 1312.13   Furnishing copies of tariff publications.

(a) *Definitions. Subscriber,* as used in this section, means any person (other than carrier participants in a tariff) that is voluntarily furnished, or that requests that it be furnished, one or more copies of a particular tariff with or without subsequent amendments or reissues of that tariff.


(b) *Sending new publications to subscribers.* (1) The publishing carrier or agent shall send each newly-issued tariff, supplement, or loose-leaf page as requested to each subscriber by first class mail, or other means requested in writing by the subscriber.


(2) Newly-issued tariffs, supplements, or loose-leaf pages shall be sent to each subscriber not later than the time the copies for official filing are sent to the Board.


(3) Carriers or agents may, if acceptable to a subscriber, furnish only specific portions of original tariffs and amendments affecting those portions.


(c) *Certification.* The letter of transmittal accompanying the copies filed with the Board shall contain the following certification:


(d) *Charges.* (1) If any charge is made, the charge for copies of tariff publications sent to subscribers shall be reasonable, and identical for the same publications.


(2) No charge may be made (even for the cost of sending the publication) for any publication that is invalidated by the Board.


(e) *Notice of invalidation.* If a publication is invalidated, the subscribers shall be notified.


(f) *Alternative subscription services.* The service described in this section must be available to any subscriber requesting it; however, the requirement to offer such service does not preclude the offering of different services to subscribers requesting those services.


(g) *Exemption for electronically filed tariffs.* A water carrier that publishes, files, and keeps its tariffs electronically in accordance with ยง 1312.4(b) is exempt from this section.



---

[N] [62 FR 19058, Apr. 18, 1997, as amended at 84 FR 20296, May 9, 2019]




