# ยง 1005.5   Commercial photography.

(a) *Motion pictures, television.* Before any motion picture may be filmed or any television production or sound track may be made, which involves the use of professional casts, settings, or crews, by any person other than bona fide newsreel or news television personnel, written permission must first be obtained from the Executive Director, in accordance with the following:


(1) *Permit required.* No picture may be filmed, and no television production or sound track made on any area administered by the Presidio Trust, by any person other than amateur or bona fide newsreel and news television photographers and soundmen, unless written permission has been obtained from the Presidio Trust. Applications for permission should be submitted to the Executive Director.


(2) *Fees; bonds.* (i) No fees will be charged for the making of motion pictures, television productions or sound tracks on areas administered by the Presidio Trust. The regular general admission and other fees currently in effect in any area under the jurisdiction of the Presidio Trust are not affected by this paragraph.


(ii) A bond shall be furnished, or deposit made in cash or by certified check, in an amount to be set by the official in charge of the area to insure full compliance with all of the conditions prescribed in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.


(3) *Approval of application.* Permission to make a motion picture, television production or sound track on areas administered by the Presidio Trust will be granted by the Executive Director in his discretion and on acceptance by the applicant of the conditions set forth in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.


(4) *Form of application.* The following form is prescribed for an application for permission to make a motion picture, television production, or sound track on areas administered by the Presidio Trust:


(b) *Still photography.* The taking of photographs of any vehicle, or other articles of commerce or models for the purpose of commercial advertising without a written permit from the Executive Director is prohibited.




