# § 133.184   Roquefort cheese, sheep's milk blue-mold, and blue-mold cheese from sheep's milk.

(a) *Description.* (1) Roquefort cheese, sheep's milk blue-mold cheese, blue-mold cheese from sheep's milk, is the food prepared by the procedure set forth in paragraph (a)(2) of this section or by any other procedure which produces a finished cheese having the same physical and chemical properties. It is characterized by the presence of bluish-green mold, *Penicillium roquefortii,* throughout the cheese. The minimum milkfat content is 50 percent by weight of the solids and the maximum moisture content is 45 percent by weight, as determined by the methods described in § 133.5. The dairy ingredients used may be pasteurized. Roquefort cheese is at least 60 days old.


(2) One or more of the dairy ingredients specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section may be warmed and is subjected to the action of a lactic acid-producing bacterial culture. One or more of the clotting enzymes specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section is added to set the dairy ingredients to a semisolid mass. The mass is cut into smaller portions and allowed to stand for a time. The mixed curd and whey is placed into forms permitting further drainage. While being placed in forms, spores of the mold *Penicillium roquefortii* are added. The forms are turned several times during drainage. When sufficiently drained, the shaped curd is removed from the forms and salted with dry salt or brine. Perforations are then made in the shaped curd and it is held at a temperature of approximately 50 °F at 90 to 95 percent relative humidity, until the characteristic mold growth has developed. During storage, the surface of the cheese may be scraped to remove surface growth of undesirable microorganisms. One or more of the other optional ingredients specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section may be added during the procedure.


(b) *Operational ingredients.* The following safe and suitable ingredients may be used:


(1) *Dairy ingredients.* Forms of milk, nonfat milk, or cream, as defined in § 133.3, of sheep origin, used alone or in combination.


(2) *Clotting enzymes.* Rennet and/or other clotting enzymes of animal, plant, or microbial origin.


(3) *Other optional ingredients.* Enzymes of animal, plant, or microbial origin, used in curing or flavor development.


(c) *Nomenclature.* The name of the food is “roquefort cheese”, or alternatively, “sheep's milk blue-mold cheese” or “blue-mold cheese from sheep's milk.


(d) *Label declaration.* Each of the ingredients used in the food shall be declared on the label as required by the applicable sections of parts 101 and 130 of this chapter, except that:


(1) Enzymes of animal, plant, or microbial origin may be declared as “enzymes”; and


(2) The dairy ingredients may be declared, in descending order of predominance, by the use of the terms “milkfat from sheep's milk and nonfat sheep's milk” or “nonfat sheep's milk and milkfat from sheep's milk”, as appropriate.



---

[N] [54 FR 32058, Aug. 4, 1989, as amended at 58 FR 2895, Jan. 6, 1993]




