# ยง 154.205   Withdrawals and amendments of tariff filings and executed service agreements.

(a) *Withdrawals of tariff filings or service agreements prior to Commission action.* (1) A natural gas company may withdraw in its entirety a tariff filing or executed service agreement that has not become effective and upon which no Commission or delegated order has been issued by filing a withdrawal motion with the Commission. Upon the filing of such motion, the proposed tariff sheets, sections or service agreements will not become effective under section 4(d) of the Natural Gas Act in the absence of Commission action making the rate schedule or tariff filing effective.


(2) The withdrawal motion will become effective, and the rate schedule or tariff filing will be deemed withdrawn, at the end of 15 days from the date of filing of the withdrawal motion, if no answer in opposition to the withdrawal motion is filed within that period and if no order disallowing the withdrawal is issued within that period. If an answer in opposition is filed within the 15 day period, the withdrawal is not effective until an order accepting the withdrawal is issued.


(b) *Amendments or modifications to tariff sheets, sections or service agreements prior to Commission action on a tariff filing.* A natural gas company may file to amend or modify a tariff or service agreement contained in a tariff filing upon which no Commission or delegated order has yet been issued. Such filing will toll the notice period in section 4(d) of the Natural Gas Act for the original filing, and establish a new date on which the entire filing will become effective, in the absence of Commission action, no earlier than 31 days from the date of the filing of the amendment or modification.


(c) *Withdrawal of suspended tariffs, executed service agreements, or parts thereof.* A natural gas company may not, within the period of suspension, withdraw a proposed tariff, executed service agreement, or part thereof, that has been suspended by order of the Commission, except by special permission of the Commission granted upon application therefor and for good cause shown. 


(d) *Changes in suspended tariffs, executed service agreements, or parts thereof.* A natural gas company may not, within the period of suspension, file any change in a proposed tariff, executed service agreement, or part thereof, that has been suspended by order of the Commission, except by special permission of the Commission granted upon application therefor and for good cause shown. 


(e) *Changes in tariffs, executed service agreements, or parts thereof continued in effect, and which were to be changed by the suspended filing.* A natural gas company may not, within the period of suspension, file any change in a tariff, executed service agreement, or part thereof, that is continued in effect by operation of the order of suspension, and that was proposed to be changed by the suspended filing, except: 


(1) Under a previously approved tariff provision permitting a limited rate change, or 


(2) By special permission of the Commission. 



---

[N] [Order 582, 60 FR 52996, Oct. 11, 1995, as amended by Order 714, 73 FR 57534, Oct. 3, 2008]




