# § 52.270   Significant deterioration of air quality.

(a) With the exception of the areas listed in paragraph (b) of this section:


(1) The requirements of Sections 160 through 165 of the Clean Air Act are not met in California.


(2) The plan does not include approvable procedures for preventing the significant deterioration of air quality.


(3) The provisions of § 52.21 except paragraph (a)(1) are hereby incorporated and made a part of the applicable State plan for the State of California.


(b) *District PSD Plans.* (1) The PSD rules for Sacramento County Air Pollution Control District are approved under Part C, Subpart 1, of the Clean Air Act. However, EPA is retaining authority to apply § 52.21 in certain cases. The provisions of § 52.21 except paragraph (a)(1) are therefore incorporated and made a part of the State plan for California for the Sacramento County Air Pollution Control District for:


(i) Those cogeneration and resource recovery projects which are major stationary sources or major modifications under § 52.21 and which would cause violations of PSD increments.


(ii) Those projects which are major stationary sources or major modifications under § 52.21 and which would either have stacks taller than 65 meters or would use “dispersion techniques” as defined in § 51.1.


(iii) Sources for which EPA has issued permits under § 52.21, including the following permit and any others for which applications are received by June 19, 1985.


(2) The PSD rules for North Coast Unified Air Quality Management District are approved under Part C, Subpart 1, of the Clean Air Act. However, EPA is retaining authority to apply § 52.21 in certain cases. The provisions of § 52.21 except paragraph (a)(1) are therefore incorporated and made a part of the State plan for California for the North Coast Unified Air Quality Management District for:


(i) Those cogeneration and resource recovery projects which are major stationary sources or major modifications under § 52.21 and which would cause violations of PSD increments.


(ii) Those projects which are major stationary sources of major modifications under § 52.21 and which would either have stacks taller than 65 meters or would use “dispersion techniques” as defined in § 51.1.


(iii) Sources for which EPA has issued permits under § 52.21, including the following permits and any others for which applications are received by July 31, 1985;


(A) Arcata Lumber Co. (NC 78-01; November 8, 1979),


(B) Northcoast Paving (NC 79-03; July 5, 1979),


(C) PG&E Buhne Pt. (NC 77-05).


(iv) Those projects which are major stationary sources or major modifications for nitrogen oxides as precursors to ozone under § 52.21.


(v) Those projects that are major stationary sources or major modifications for emissions of PM_2.5_ or its precursors under § 52.21, and those projects that are major stationary sources under § 52.21 with the potential to emit PM_2.5_ or its precursors at a rate that would meet or exceed the rates specified at § 52.21(b)(23)(i).


(3) The PSD program for Mendocino County Air Quality Management District, as incorporated by reference in § 52.220(c)(489) and (c)(555) is approved under Part C, Subpart 1, of the Clean Air Act. However, EPA is retaining authority to apply § 52.21 in certain cases. The provisions of § 52.21 except for paragraph (a)(1) are therefore incorporated and made a part of the State plan for California for the Mendocino County Air Quality Management District for: 


(i) Those cogeneration and resource recovery projects which are major stationary sources or major modifications under § 52.21 and which would cause violations of PSD increments.


(ii) Those projects which are major stationary sources or major modifications under § 52.21 and which would either have stacks taller than 65 meters or would use “dispersion techniques” as defined in § 51.1.


(iii) Any sources for which EPA has issued permits under § 52.21, including any permits for which applications are received by July 31, 1985.


(4) The PSD program for Northern Sonoma County Air Pollution Control District, as incorporated by reference in § 52.220(c)(481) is approved under Part C, Subpart 1, of the Clean Air Act. The provisions of § 52.21 except paragraph (a)(1) are therefore incorporated and made a part of the State plan for California for the Northern Sonoma County Air Pollution Control District for: 


(i) Those cogeneration and resource recovery projects which are major stationary sources or major modifications under § 52.21 and which would cause violations of PSD increments.


(ii) Those projects which are major stationary sources or major modifications under § 52.21 and which would either have stacks taller than 65 meters or would use “dispersion techniques” as defined in § 51.1.


(iii) Any sources for which EPA has issued permits under § 52.21, including any permits for which applications are received by July 31, 1985.


(5) Rule 2410, “Prevention of Significant Deterioration,” adopted on June 16, 2011, for the San Joaquin Valley Unified Air Pollution Control District (SJVUAPCD) is approved under Part C, Subpart 1, of the Clean Air Act, based, in part, on the clarifications provided in a May 18, 2012 letter from the San Joaquin Valley Unified Air Pollution Control District described in § 52.220(c)(415). For PSD permits previously issued by EPA pursuant to § 52.21 to sources located in the SJVUAPCD, this approval includes the authority for the SJVUAPCD to conduct general administration of these existing permits, authority to process and issue any and all subsequent permit actions relating to such permits, and authority to enforce such permits, except for:


(i) Those specific sources within the SJVUAPCD that have submitted PSD permit applications to EPA and for which EPA has issued a proposed PSD permit decision, but for which final agency action and/or the exhaustion of all administrative and judicial appeals processes (including any associated remand actions) have not yet been concluded or completed by November 26, 2012. The SJVUAPCD will assume full responsibility for the administration and implementation of such PSD permits immediately upon notification from EPA to the SJVUAPCD that any and all administrative and judicial appeals processes (and any associated remand actions) have been completed or concluded for any such permit decision. Prior to the date of such notification, EPA is retaining authority to apply § 52.21 for such permit decisions, and the provisions of § 52.21, except paragraph (a)(1), are therefore incorporated and made a part of the State plan for California for the SJVUAPCD for such permit decisions during the identified time period.


(ii) [Reserved]


(6) The PSD program for the Placer County Air Pollution Control District (PCAPCD), as incorporated by reference in § 52.220(c)(497)(i)(B)(*2*), is approved under part C, subpart 1, of the Clean Air Act. For PSD permits previously issued by EPA pursuant to § 52.21 to sources located in the PCAPCD, this approval includes the authority for the PCAPCD to conduct general administration of these existing permits, authority to process and issue any and all subsequent permit actions relating to such permits, and authority to enforce such permits.


(7) The PSD program for the Imperial County Air Pollution Control District, as incorporated by reference in § 52.220(c)(411), is approved under part C, Subpart 1, of the Clean Air Act.


(8) The PSD program for the Eastern Kern Air Pollution Control District (EKAPCD), as incorporated by reference in § 52.220(c)(419), is approved under part C, Subpart 1, of the Clean Air Act. For PSD permits previously issued by EPA pursuant to § 52.21 to sources located in the EKAPCD, this approval includes the authority for the EKAPCD to conduct general administration of these existing permits, authority to process and issue any and all subsequent permit actions relating to such permits, and authority to enforce such permits.


(9) The PSD program for the Yolo-Solano Air Quality Management District, as incorporated by reference in § 52.220(c)(420), is approved under part C, Subpart 1, of the Clean Air Act.


(10) The PSD program for greenhouse gases (GHGs) in Rule 1714 for the South Coast Air Quality Management District (SCAQMD), as incorporated by reference in § 52.220(c)(421), is approved under part C, Subpart 1, of the Clean Air Act. This approval is limited to sources subject to the PSD program for GHGs. The provisions of § 52.21 (except paragraph (a)(1)) continue to apply to the SCAQMD for all pollutants subject to regulation, as defined in § 52.21, except for GHGs.


(11) The PSD program for the Great Basin Unified Air Pollution Control District (GBUAPCD), as incorporated by reference in § 52.220(c)(428), is approved under Part C, Subpart 1, of the Clean Air Act. For PSD permits previously issued by EPA pursuant to § 52.21 to sources located in the GBUAPCD, this approval includes the authority for the GBUAPCD to conduct general administration of these existing permits, authority to process and issue any and all subsequent permit actions relating to such permits, and authority to enforce such permits.


(12) The PSD program for the Butte County Air Quality Management District (BCAQMD), as incorporated by reference in § 52.220(c)(428), is approved under Part C, Subpart 1, of the Clean Air Act. For PSD permits previously issued by EPA pursuant to § 52.21 to sources located in the BCAQMD, this approval includes the authority for the BCAQMD to conduct general administration of these existing permits, authority to process and issue any and all subsequent permit actions relating to such permits, and authority to enforce such permits.


(13) The PSD program for the Feather River Air Quality Management District (FRAQMD), as incorporated by reference in § 52.220(c)(429), is approved under Part C, Subpart 1, of the Clean Air Act. For PSD permits previously issued by EPA pursuant to § 52.21 to sources located in the FRAQMD, this approval includes the authority for the FRAQMD to conduct general administration of these existing permits, authority to process and issue any and all subsequent permit actions relating to such permits, and authority to enforce such permits.


(14) The PSD program for the San Luis Obispo County Air Pollution Control District (SLOAPCD), as incorporated by reference in § 52.220(c)(441), is approved under Part C, Subpart 1, of the Clean Air Act.


(15) The PSD program for the Santa Barbara County Air Pollution Control District (SBAPCD), as incorporated by reference in § 52.220(c)(442), is approved under Part C, Subpart 1, of the Clean Air Act. For PSD permits previously issued by EPA pursuant to § 52.21 to sources located in the SBAPCD, this approval includes the authority for the SBAPCD to conduct general administration of these existing permits, authority to process and issue any and all subsequent permit actions relating to such permits, and authority to enforce such permits.


(16) The PSD program for the Bay Area Air Quality Management District (BAAQMD), as incorporated by reference in § 52.220(c)(429)(i)(E)(*2*), is approved under part C, subpart 1, of the Clean Air Act. For PSD permits previously issued by EPA pursuant to § 52.21 to sources located in the BAAQMD, this approval includes the authority for the BAAQMD to conduct general administration of these existing permits, authority to process and issue any and all subsequent permit actions relating to such permits, and authority to enforce such permits.


(17) The PSD program for the Ventura County Air Pollution Control District (VCAPCD), as incorporated by reference in § 52.220(c)(474)(i)(D)(*1*), is approved under part C, subpart 1, of the Clean Air Act. For PSD permits previously issued by EPA pursuant to § 52.21 to sources located in the VCAPCD, this approval includes the authority for the VCAPCD to conduct general administration of these existing permits, authority to process and issue any and all subsequent permit actions relating to such permits, and authority to enforce such permits.



---

[N] [50 FR 25419, June 19, 1985, as amended at 50 FR 30943, July 31, 1985; 68 FR 11322, Mar. 10, 2003; 68 FR 74488, Dec. 24, 2003; 76 FR 48008, Aug. 8, 2011; 77 FR 65310, Oct. 26, 2012; 77 FR 73322, Dec. 10, 2012; 77 FR 73320, Dec. 10, 2012; 80 FR 69882, Nov. 12, 2015; 81 FR 50342, Aug. 1, 2016; 81 FR 69392, Oct. 6, 2016; 82 FR 13245, Mar. 10, 2017; 82 FR 14611, Mar. 22, 2017; 82 FR 30773, July 3, 2017; 83 FR 43766, Aug. 28, 2018; 86 FR 33541, June 25, 2021]




