# § 200.211   Information contained in a Federal award.

The Federal award must include the following information:


(a) *Federal award performance goals.* Where applicable, performance goals, indicators, targets, and baseline data must be included in the Federal award. The Federal agency must also specify in the terms and conditions of the Federal award how performance will be assessed, including the timing and scope of expected performance. See §§ 200.202 and 200.301 for more information on Federal award performance goals.


(b) *General Federal award information.* The Federal agency must include the following information in each Federal award:


(1) Recipient Name (which must match the name associated with its unique entity identifier as defined at 2 CFR 25.400);


(2) Recipient's Unique Entity Identifier;


(3) Unique Federal Award Identification Number (FAIN);


(4) Federal Award Date (see Federal award date in § 200.1);


(5) Period of Performance Start and End Date;


(6) Budget Period Start and End Date;


(7) Amount of Federal Funds Obligated by this Action;


(8) Total Amount of Federal Funds Obligated;


(9) Total Approved Cost Sharing, where applicable;


(10) Total Amount of the Federal Award including approved Cost Sharing;


(11) Budget Approved by the Federal Agency;


(12) Federal Award Description (to comply with statutory requirements (for example, FFATA));


(13) Name of the Federal agency (including contact information for the awarding official);


(14) Assistance Listings Number and Title;


(15) Identification of whether the Award is R&D; and


(16) Indirect Cost Rate for the Federal award (including if the de minimis rate is charged per § 200.414).


(c) *General terms and conditions.* (1) Federal agencies must incorporate the following general terms and conditions either in the Federal award or by reference, as applicable:


(i) *Administrative requirements.* Administrative requirements implemented by the Federal agency as specified in this part.


(ii) *National policy requirements.* These include statutory, executive order, other Presidential directive, or regulatory requirements that apply by specific reference and are not program-specific. See § 200.300 Statutory and national policy requirements.


(iii) *Recipient integrity and performance matters.* When the total Federal share of the Federal award may include more than $500,000 over the period of performance, the Federal agency must include the terms and conditions available in Appendix XII. See also § 200.113.


(iv) *Future budget periods.* When it is anticipated that the period of performance will include multiple budget periods, the Federal agency must indicate that subsequent budget periods are subject to the availability of funds, program authority, satisfactory performance, and compliance with the terms and conditions of the Federal award.


(v) *Termination provisions.* Federal agencies must inform recipients of the termination provisions in § 200.340, including the applicable termination provisions in the Federal agency's regulations or terms and conditions of the Federal award.


(2) The Federal award must incorporate, by reference, all general terms and conditions of the Federal award, which must be maintained on the Federal agency's website.


(3) The Federal agency must provide a copy of the full text of the general terms and conditions if a recipient requests it.


(4) The Federal agency must maintain an archive of previous versions of the general terms and conditions, with effective dates, for use by a recipient, auditors, or others. The archive should be located on the Federal agency's website in the same place where current terms and conditions are available.


(d) *Federal award specific terms and conditions.* The Federal agency must include in each Federal award any specific terms and conditions that are in addition to the general terms and conditions. See also § 200.208. For loan and loan guarantee programs, the Federal agency must specify whether or not the Federal award has continuing compliance requirements. Whenever practicable, these specific terms and conditions should also be available on the Federal agency's website and in notices of funding opportunities (as outlined in § 200.204).


(e) *Federal agency requirements.* Any other information required by the Federal agency.






