# § 37.9   Standards for accessible transportation facilities.

(a) *Transportation facilities other than transit stops in the public right-of-way.* (1) For purposes of this part, a transportation facility shall be considered to be readily accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities if it meets the requirements of this part and the requirements set forth in appendices B and D to 36 CFR part 1191, which apply to buildings and facilities covered by the Americans with Disabilities Act, as modified by appendix A to this part.


(2) Facility alterations begun before January 26, 1992, in a good faith effort to make a facility accessible to individuals with disabilities may be used to meet the key station requirements set forth in §§ 37.47 and 37.51, even if these alterations are not consistent with the requirements set forth in appendices B and D to 36 CFR part 1191 and appendix A to this part, if the modifications complied with the Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards (UFAS) or ANSI A117.1(1980) (American National Standards Specification for Making Buildings and Facilities Accessible to and Usable by the Physically Handicapped). This paragraph applies only to alterations of individual elements and spaces and only to the extent that provisions covering those elements or spaces are contained in UFAS or ANSI A117.1, as applicable.


(3)(i) New construction or alterations of buildings or facilities on which construction has begun, or all approvals for final design have been received, before November 29, 2006, are not required to be consistent with the requirements set forth in appendices B and D to 36 CFR part 1191 and appendix A to this part, if the construction or alterations comply with the former appendix A to this part, as codified in the October 1, 2006, edition of the Code of Federal Regulations.


(ii) Existing buildings and facilities that are not altered after November 29, 2006, and which comply with the former appendix A to this part, are not required to be retrofitted to comply with the requirements set forth in appendices B and D to 36 CFR part 1191 and appendix A to this part.


(4)(i) For purposes of implementing the equivalent facilitation provision in ADA chapter 1, section 103, of appendix B to 36 CFR part 1191, the following parties may submit to the Administrator of the applicable operating administration a request for a determination of equivalent facilitation:


(A)(*1*) A public or private entity that provides transportation facilities subject to the provisions of subpart C of this part, or other appropriate party with the concurrence of the Administrator.


(*2*) With respect to airport facilities, an entity that is an airport operator subject to the requirements of part 27 of this title or regulations implementing the Americans with Disabilities Act, an air carrier subject to the requirements of 14 CFR part 382, or other appropriate party with the concurrence of the Administrator.


(B) The manufacturer of a product or accessibility feature to be used in a transportation facility or facilities.


(ii) The requesting party shall provide the following information with its request:


(A) Entity name, address, contact person and telephone;


(B) Specific provision(s) of appendices B and D to 36 CFR part 1191 or appendix A to this part concerning which the entity is seeking a determination of equivalent facilitation;


(C) [Reserved]


(D) Alternative method of compliance, with demonstration of how the alternative meets or exceeds the level of accessibility or usability provided in appendices B and D to 36 CFR part 1191 or appendix A to this part; and


(E) Documentation of the public participation used in developing an alternative method of compliance.


(iii) In the case of a request by a public entity that provides transportation facilities (including an airport operator), or a request by an air carrier with respect to airport facilities, the required public participation shall include the following:


(A) The entity shall contact individuals with disabilities and groups representing them in the community. Consultation with these individuals and groups shall take place at all stages of the development of the request for equivalent facilitation. All documents and other information concerning the request shall be available, upon request, to Department of Transportation officials and members of the public.


(B) The entity shall make its proposed request available for public comment before the request is made final or transmitted to DOT. In making the request available for public review, the entity shall ensure that it is available, upon request, in accessible formats.


(C) The entity shall sponsor at least one public hearing on the request and shall provide adequate notice of the hearing, including advertisement in appropriate media, such as newspapers of general and special interest circulation and radio announcements.


(iv) In the case of a request by a manufacturer or a private entity other than an air carrier, the manufacturer or private entity shall consult, in person, in writing, or by other appropriate means, with representatives of national and local organizations representing people with those disabilities who would be affected by the request.


(v) A determination of compliance will be made by the Administrator of the concerned operating administration on a case-by-case basis, with the concurrence of the Assistant Secretary for Transportation Policy.


(vi)(A) Determinations of equivalent facilitation are made only with respect to transportation facilities, and pertain only to the specific situation concerning which the determination is made. Provided, however, that with respect to a product or accessibility feature that the Administrator determines can provide an equivalent facilitation in a class of situations, the Administrator may make an equivalent facilitation determination applying to that class of situations.


(B) Entities shall not cite these determinations as indicating that a product or method constitutes equivalent facilitation in situations, or classes of situations, other than those to which the determinations specifically pertain.


(C) Entities shall not claim that a determination of equivalent facilitation indicates approval or endorsement of any product or method by the Federal Government, the Department of Transportation, or any of its operating administrations.


(b) *Transportation facilities (transit stops) in the public right-of-way.* (1) Except as set forth in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, if new construction or alterations of a transit stop located in the public right-of-way commence after January 17, 2025, the new construction or alterations of the transit stop shall comply with the requirements set forth in the appendix to 36 CFR part 1190, which apply to pedestrian facilities located in the public right-of-way covered by the Americans with Disabilities Act.


(2) New construction or alterations of transit stops located in the public right-of-way on which construction has begun, or all approvals for final design have been received, before January 17, 2025, are not required to be consistent with the requirements set forth in the appendix to 36 CFR part 1190, but are otherwise required to be readily accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities.


(3)(i) For purposes of implementing the equivalent facilitation provision in chapter 1, section R102.1, of the appendix to 36 CFR part 1190, the following parties may submit to the Administrator of the applicable operating administration a request for a determination of equivalent facilitation:


(A) A public or private entity that provides transit stops in the public right-of-way subject to the provisions of subpart C of this part, or other appropriate party with the concurrence of the Administrator.


(B) The manufacturer of a product or accessibility feature to be used in a transit stop in the public right-of-way.


(ii) The requesting party shall provide the following information with its request:


(A) Entity name, address, contact person and telephone;


(B) Specific provision(s) of the appendix to 36 CFR part 1190 concerning which the entity is seeking a determination of equivalent facilitation;


(C) Alternative method of compliance, with demonstration of how the alternative meets or exceeds the level of accessibility or usability provided in the appendix to 36 CFR part 1190; and


(D) Documentation of the public participation used in developing an alternative method of compliance.


(iii) In the case of a request by a public entity that provides transit stops in the public right-of-way, the required public participation shall include the following:


(A) The entity shall contact individuals with disabilities and groups representing them in the community. Consultation with these individuals and groups shall take place at all stages of the development of the request for equivalent facilitation. All documents and other information concerning the request shall be available, upon request, to Department of Transportation officials and members of the public.


(B) The entity shall make its proposed request available for public comment before the request is made final or transmitted to DOT. In making the request available for public review, the entity shall ensure that it is available, upon request, in accessible formats.


(C) The entity shall sponsor at least one public hearing on the request and shall provide adequate notice of the hearing, including advertisement in appropriate media, such as newspapers of general and special interest circulation and radio announcements.


(iv) In the case of a request by a manufacturer or a private entity, the manufacturer or private entity shall consult, in person, in writing, or by other appropriate means, with representatives of national and local organizations representing people with those disabilities who would be affected by the request.


(v) A determination of compliance will be made by the Administrator of the concerned operating administration on a case-by-case basis, with the concurrence of the Assistant Secretary for Transportation Policy.


(vi)(A) Determinations of equivalent facilitation are made only with respect to transit stops in the public right-of-way, and pertain only to the specific situation concerning which the determination is made. Provided, however, that with respect to a product or accessibility feature that the Administrator determines can provide an equivalent facilitation in a class of situations, the Administrator may make an equivalent facilitation determination applying to that class of situations.


(B) Entities shall not cite these determinations as indicating that a product or method constitutes equivalent facilitation in situations, or classes of situations, other than those to which the determinations specifically pertain.


(C) Entities shall not claim that a determination of equivalent facilitation indicates approval or endorsement of any product or method by the Federal Government, the Department of Transportation, or any of its operating administrations.



---

[N] [89 FR 102808, Dec. 18, 2024]




