# § 457.110   Enrollment assistance and information requirements.

(a) *Information disclosure.* The State must make accurate, easily understood, information available to families of potential applicants, applicants and enrollees, and provide assistance to these families in making informed decisions about their health plans, professionals, and facilities. This information must be provided in plain language and is accessible to individuals with disabilities and persons who are limited English proficient, consistent with § 435.905(b) of this chapter.


(1) The State must provide individuals with a choice to receive notices and information required under this subpart and subpart K of this part, in electronic format or by regular mail, provided that the State establish safeguards in accordance with § 435.918 of this chapter.


(2) [Reserved]


(b) *Required information.* The State must make available to potential applicants and provide applicants and enrollees the following information in a timely manner: 


(1) Types of benefits, and amount, duration and scope of benefits available under the program. 


(2) Cost-sharing requirements as described in § 457.525. 


(3) Names and locations of current participating providers. 


(4) If an enrollment cap is in effect or the State is using a waiting list, a description of the procedures relating to the cap or waiting list, including the process for deciding which children will be given priority for enrollment, how children will be informed of their status on a waiting list and the circumstances under which enrollment will reopen. 


(5) Information on physician incentive plans as required by § 457.985. 


(6) Review processes available to applicants and enrollees as described in the State plan pursuant to § 457.1120. 



---

[N] [65 FR 33622, May 24, 2000, as amended at 78 FR 42312, July 15, 2013; 81 FR 86463, Nov. 30, 2016]




