# ยง 1070.15   Responsibility for responding to requests for CFPB records.

(a) *In general.* In determining which records are responsive to a request, the CFPB ordinarily will include only records in its possession as of the date the CFPB begins its search for them. If any other date is used, the CFPB shall inform the requester of that date.


(b) *Authority to grant or deny requests.* The Chief FOIA Officer shall be authorized to grant or deny any request for a record of the CFPB.


(c) *Consultations, referrals and coordination.* When reviewing a record in response to a request, the CFPB will determine whether another agency is better able to determine whether the record is exempt from disclosure under the FOIA. As to any such record, the agency must proceed in one of the following ways:


(1) *Referral.* (i) When a requested record has been created by an agency other than the CFPB, the CFPB shall refer the record to that agency for a direct response to the requester.


(ii) Whenever the CFPB refers any part of the responsibility for responding to a request to another agency, it must document the referral, maintaining a copy of the record that it refers, and notify the requester of the referral, informing the requester of the name of the agency to which the record was referred, including that agency's FOIA contact information.


(2) *Consultation.* When a FOIA request is received for a record created by the CFPB that includes information originated by another agency, the CFPB shall consult the originating agency for review and recommendation on disclosure. The CFPB shall not release any such records without prior consultation with the originating agency.


(3) *Coordination.* The standard referral procedure is not appropriate where disclosure of the identity of the agency to which the referral would be made could harm an interest protected by an applicable exemption, such as the exemptions that protect personal privacy or national security interests. In such instances, in order to avoid harm to an interest protected by an applicable exemption, the agency that received the request should coordinate with the originating agency to seek its views on the disclosability of the record. The release determination for the record that is the subject of the coordination should then be conveyed to the requester by the agency that originally received the request.




