# ยง 886.318   Responsibilities of the owner.

(a) *Management and maintenance.* The owner shall be responsible for the management and maintenance of the project in accordance with requirements established by HUD. These responsibilities shall include but not be limited to: 


(1) Payment for utilities and services (unless paid directly by the family), insurance and taxes; 


(2) Performance of all ordinary and extraordinary maintenance; 


(3) Performance of all management functions, including the taking of applications; determining eligibility of applicants in accordance with 24 CFR part 5 of this title; selection of families, including verification of income, obtaining and verifying Social Security Numbers submitted by applicants (as provided by part 5, subpart B, of this title), obtaining signed consent forms from applicants for the obtaining of wage and claim information from State Wage Information Collection Agencies (as provided in part 5, subpart B, of this title), and other pertinent requirements; and determination of the amount of tenant rent in accordance with HUD established schedules and criteria.


(4) Collection of Tenant Rents; 


(5) Preparation and furnishing of information required under the contract; 


(6) Reexamination of family income, composition, and extent of exceptional medical or other unusual expenses; redeterminations, as appropriate, of the amount of Tenant Rent and amount of housing assistance payment in accordance with part 5 of this title; obtaining and verifying Social Security Numbers submitted by participants, as provided by CFR part 750; and obtaining signed consent forms from participants for the obtaining of wage and claim information from State Wage Information Collection Agencies, as provided by part 5, subpart B, of this title.


(7) Redeterminations of the amount of Tenant Rent and the amount of housing assistance payment in accordance with part 5 of this title as a result of an adjustment by HUD of any applicable utility allowance; 


(8) Notifying families in writing when they are determined to be qualified for assistance under this subpart where they have not already been notified by HUD prior to sale; 


(9) Reviewing at least annually the allowance for utilities and other services; 


(10) Compliance with equal opportunity requirements; and 


(11) Compliance with Federal requirements set forth in ยง 886.313(c). 


(b) *Contracting for Services.* Subject to HUD approval, any owner may contract with any private or public entity to perform for a fee the services required by paragraph (a) of this section: *Provided,* That such contract shall not shift any of the owner's responsibilities or obligations. 


(c) *HUD review.* The owner shall permit HUD to review and audit the management and maintenance of the project at any time.


(d) *Submission of financial and operating statements.* After execution of the Contract, the owner must submit to HUD:


(1) Financial information in accordance with 24 CFR part 5, subpart H; and


(2) Other statements as to project operation, financial conditions and occupancy as HUD may require pertinent to administration of the Contract and monitoring of project operations.



---

[N] [44 FR 70365, Dec. 6, 1979, as amended at 49 FR 19949, May 10, 1984; 53 FR 1169, Jan. 15, 1988; 53 FR 6601, Mar. 2, 1988; 54 FR 39709, Sept. 27, 1989; 56 FR 7542, Feb. 22, 1991; 58 FR 43722, Aug. 17, 1993; 60 FR 14846, Mar. 20, 1995; 61 FR 11119, Mar. 18, 1996; 63 FR 46593, Sept. 1, 1998; 65 FR 16724, Mar. 29, 2000]




