# § 52.2302   Federal implementation plan for regional haze.

(a) Requirements for Martin Lake Units 1, 2, and 3; Monticello Units 1, 2, and 3, Limestone Units 1 and 2; Sandow Unit 4; Big Brown Units 1 and 2; Coleto Creek Unit 1; Tolk Units 1 and 2; and San Miguel affecting visibility.


(1) *Applicability.* The provisions of this section shall apply to each owner or operator, or successive owners or operators, of the coal burning equipment designated as: Martin Lake Units 1, 2, and 3; Monticello Units 1, 2, and 3, Limestone Units 1 and 2; Sandow Unit 4; Big Brown Units 1 and 2; Coleto Creek Unit 1; Tolk Units 1 and 2; and San Miguel.


(2) *Compliance dates.* Compliance with the requirements of this section is required by February 4, 2019 for Martin Lake Units 1, 2, and 3; Monticello Unit 3, Limestone Units 1 and 2; and Sandow Unit 4. Compliance with the requirements of this section is required by February 4, 2021 for Big Brown Units 1 and 2; Monticello Units 1 and 2; Coleto Creek Unit 1; and Tolk Units 1 and 2. Compliance with the requirements of this section is required by February 4, 2017 for San Miguel. These compliance dates apply unless otherwise indicated by compliance dates contained in specific provisions.


(3) *Definitions.* All terms used in this part but not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Clean Air Act (CAA) and in 40 CFR parts 51 and 60. For the purposes of this section:


*24-hour period* means the period of time between 12:01 a.m. and 12 midnight.


*Air pollution control equipment* includes selective catalytic control units, baghouses, particulate or gaseous scrubbers, and any other apparatus utilized to control emissions of regulated air contaminants which would be emitted to the atmosphere.


*Boiler-operating-day* means any 24-hour period between 12:00 midnight and the following midnight during which any fuel is combusted at any time at the steam generating unit.


*Daily average* means the arithmetic average of the hourly values measured in a 24-hour period.


*Heat input* means heat derived from combustion of fuel in a unit and does not include the heat input from preheated combustion air, recirculated flue gases, or exhaust gases from other sources. Heat input shall be calculated in accordance with 40 CFR part 75.


*Owner or Operator* means any person who owns, leases, operates, controls, or supervises any of the coal burning equipment designated in paragraph (a) of this section.


*Regional Administrator* means the Regional Administrator of EPA Region 6 or his/her authorized representative.


*Unit* means one of the coal fired boilers covered under paragraph (a) of this section.


(4) *Emissions limitations*—*SO*_2_*emission limit*. The individual sulfur dioxide emission limit for a unit shall be as listed in the table in this paragraph (a)(4) in pounds per million British thermal units (lb/MMBtu) as averaged over a rolling 30-boiler-operating-day period.


(i) For each unit, SO_2_ emissions for each calendar day shall be determined by summing the hourly emissions measured in pounds of SO_2_. For each unit, heat input for each boiler-operating-day shall be determined by adding together all hourly heat inputs, in millions of BTU. Each boiler-operating-day of the thirty-day rolling average for a unit shall be determined by adding together the pounds of SO_2_ from that day and the preceding 29-boiler-operating-days and dividing the total pounds of SO_2_ by the sum of the heat input during the same 30-boiler-operating-day period. The result shall be the 30-boiler-operating-day rolling average in terms of lb/MMBtu emissions of SO_2_. If a valid SO_2_ pounds per hour or heat input is not available for any hour for a unit, that heat input and SO_2_ pounds per hour shall not be used in the calculation of the 30-boiler-operating-day rolling average for SO_2_.


(ii) In lieu of paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section, and if San Miguel meets paragraph (a)(5)(i) of this section, it may install a CEMS at the inlet of the scrubber system. The 30 BOD SO_2_ average from the existing outlet CEMS must read at or below 6.0% (94% control) of a 30 BOD SO_2_ average from the inlet CEMS.


(5) *Testing and monitoring.* (i) No later than the compliance date as set out in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the owner or operator shall install, calibrate, maintain and operate Continuous Emissions Monitoring Systems (CEMS) for SO_2_ on the units listed in paragraph (a)(1) of this section in accordance with 40 CFR 60.8 and 60.13(e), (f), and (h), and appendix B of part 60 of this chapter. No later than the compliance date as set out in paragraph (a)(2), San Miguel must submit a letter to the Regional Administrator that informs the EPA which compliance option it elects, as specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section. San Miguel must then adhere to the compliance method set forth in that letter to the Regional Administrator. All owners or operators shall comply with the quality assurance procedures for CEMS found in 40 CFR part 75. Compliance with the emission limits for SO_2_ shall be determined by using data from a CEMS.


(ii) Continuous emissions monitoring shall apply during all periods of operation of the coal burning equipment, including periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction, except for CEMS breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero and span adjustments. Continuous monitoring systems for measuring SO_2_ and diluent gas shall complete a minimum of one cycle of operation (sampling, analyzing, and data recording) for each successive 15-minute period. Hourly averages shall be computed using at least one data point in each fifteen minute quadrant of an hour. Notwithstanding this requirement, an hourly average may be computed from at least two data points separated by a minimum of 15 minutes (where the unit operates for more than one quadrant in an hour) if data are unavailable as a result of performance of calibration, quality assurance, preventive maintenance activities, or backups of data from data acquisition and handling system, and recertification events. When valid SO_2_ pounds per hour, or SO_2_ pounds per million Btu emission data are not obtained because of continuous monitoring system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, or zero and span adjustments, emission data must be obtained by using other monitoring systems approved by the EPA to provide emission data for a minimum of 18 hours in each 24 hour period and at least 22 out of 30 successive boiler-operating-days.


(6) *Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.* Unless otherwise stated all requests, reports, submittals, notifications, and other communications to the Regional Administrator required by this section shall be submitted, unless instructed otherwise, to the Director, Air and Radiation Division, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 6, to the attention of Mail Code: AR, at 1201 Elm Street, Suite 500, Dallas, Texas 75270-2102. For each unit subject to the emissions limitation in this section and upon completion of the installation of CEMS as required in this section, the owner or operator shall comply with the following requirements:


(i) For each emissions limit in this section, comply with the notification, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements for CEMS compliance monitoring in 40 CFR 60.7(c) and (d).


(ii) For each day, provide the total SO_2_ emitted that day by each emission unit. For any hours on any unit where data for hourly pounds or heat input is missing, identify the unit number and monitoring device that did not produce valid data that caused the missing hour.


(7) *Equipment operations.* At all times, including periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction, the owner or operator shall, to the extent practicable, maintain and operate the unit including associated air pollution control equipment in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. Determination of whether acceptable operating and maintenance procedures are being used will be based on information available to the Regional Administrator which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operating and maintenance procedures, and inspection of the unit.


(8) *Enforcement.* (i) Notwithstanding any other provision in this implementation plan, any credible evidence or information relevant as to whether the unit would have been in compliance with applicable requirements if the appropriate performance or compliance test had been performed, can be used to establish whether or not the owner or operator has violated or is in violation of any standard or applicable emission limit in the plan.


(ii) Emissions in excess of the level of the applicable emission limit or requirement that occur due to a malfunction shall constitute a violation of the applicable emission limit.


(b) [Reserved]



---

[N] [81 FR 351, Jan. 5, 2016, as amended at 84 FR 44229, Aug. 23, 2019]




