# ยง 49.130   When and how may a permit be modified, suspended, revoked, or cancelled?

(a) *Modification.* The Federal land manager may modify a permit at the permittee's request; or when resource, safety, or other administrative or management reasons make permit modification appropriate; or when there is a violation or a potential violation of a term or condition of a permit issued under this part.


(b) *Suspension.* The Federal land manager may suspend for up to 45 days activities under the permit when resource, safety, or other administrative or management reasons make permit suspension appropriate, or when the permittee violates a term or condition of the permit. If the issue prompting suspension is not resolved within the 45-day period, the Federal land manager may modify, revoke, or cancel the permit as appropriate to the specific circumstance.


(c) *Revocation.* The Federal land manager may revoke a permit when the permittee violates a term or condition of a permit, is later found to be ineligible for the permit, or fails to take the actions necessary for ending a suspension. The Federal land manager will revoke a permit immediately if any person working under the authority of the permit is convicted of a criminal offense under this part or assessed a civil penalty under this part.


(d) *Cancellation.* The Federal land manager may cancel a permit when the permittee requests cancellation, or when resource, safety, or other administrative or management reasons make permit cancellation appropriate. Cancellation of a permit does not imply fault on the part of the permittee.


(e) *Notification of modification, suspension, revocation, or cancellation.* (1) The Federal land manager will notify the permittee of the modification, suspension, revocation, or cancellation verbally or in writing. The Federal land manager will, as soon as practicable, confirm a verbal notification with a written notification. A written notification will be served on the permittee by certified mail, return receipt requested, or another verifiable delivery method, and will explain the reason for the modification, suspension, revocation, or cancellation.


(2) In the case of a suspension, the written notification will also include the conditions or actions necessary for ending the suspension; the anticipated duration of the suspension or schedule for resolution of the conditions that led to the suspension; and a statement that the permit will be modified, revoked, or cancelled if the conditions that led to the suspension are not resolved.


(3) The written notification will inform the permittee how to appeal the modification, revocation, suspension, or cancellation.


(f) A modification, suspension, revocation, or cancellation is in full force and effective immediately upon the permittee's receipt of the written notification of the modification, suspension, revocation, or cancellation.




