# § 3.103   Procedural due process and other rights.

(a) *Statement of policy.* Every claimant has the right to written notice of the decision made on his or her claim, the right to a hearing, and the right of representation. Proceedings before VA are ex parte in nature, and it is the obligation of VA to assist a claimant in developing the facts pertinent to the claim and to render a decision which grants every benefit that can be supported in law while protecting the interests of the Government. The provisions of this section apply to all claims for benefits and relief, and decisions thereon, within the purview of this part 3. 


(b) *The right to notice*— 

(1) *General.* Claimants and their representatives are entitled to notice of any decision made by VA affecting the payment of benefits or the granting of relief. Such notice will clearly set forth the elements described under paragraph (f) of this section, the right to a hearing on any issue involved in the claim as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the right of representation, and the right, as well as the necessary procedures and time limits to initiate a higher-level review, supplemental claim, or appeal to the Board of Veterans' Appeals. 


(2) *Advance notice and opportunity for hearing.* Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, no award of compensation, pension or dependency and indemnity compensation shall be terminated, reduced or otherwise adversely affected unless the beneficiary has been notified of such adverse action and has been provided a period of 60 days in which to submit evidence for the purpose of showing that the adverse action should not be taken.


(3) *Exceptions.* In lieu of advance notice and opportunity for a hearing, VA will send a written notice to the beneficiary or his or her fiduciary at the same time it takes an adverse action under the following circumstances: 


(i) An adverse action based solely on factual and unambiguous information or statements as to income, net worth, or dependency or marital status that the beneficiary or his or her fiduciary provided to VA in writing or orally (under the procedures set forth in § 3.217(b)), with knowledge or notice that such information would be used to calculate benefit amounts. 


(ii) An adverse action based upon the beneficiary's or fiduciary's failure to return a required eligibility verification report.


(iii) Evidence reasonably indicates that a beneficiary is deceased. However, in the event that VA has received a death certificate, a terminal hospital report verifying the death of a beneficiary or a claim for VA burial benefits, no notice of termination (contemporaneous or otherwise) will be required.


(iv) An adverse action based upon a written and signed statement provided by the beneficiary to VA renouncing VA benefits (see § 3.106 on renouncement). 


(v) An adverse action based upon a written or electronic statement provided to VA by a veteran that indicates that the veteran has received, is in receipt of, or will receive active service pay as defined by § 3.654(a), or, in the case of compensation, written or electronic notice from the Department of Defense that indicates that the veteran has received or is in receipt of active service pay as defined by § 3.654(a), provided that, in cases involving notice from the Department of Defense, the veteran has on a previous occasion of concurrent receipt of compensation and payment for the type of service at issue received the notice described in paragraph (b)(2), but with a period of 30 rather than 60 days to respond, as well as notice that suspension of compensation payments based on subsequent payments for the same type of service will be made without additional advance notice. The statement from the veteran or notice from the Department of Defense must include the date on which the service resulting in receipt of active service pay began or, in the case of a statement from the veteran, the date on which the service resulting in receipt of active service pay is expected to begin, or, in the case of training duty, the number of training days performed, or, in the case of a statement from the veteran, the number of training days expected to be performed, during a specified period of time (*e.g.,* last month, last quarter, last year, next month, etc.). In order for this paragraph to apply, the veteran must have received prior notice that receipt of active service pay precludes concurrent receipt of VA benefits, or VA must have received a statement from the veteran that indicates knowledge of such preclusion. In cases to which § 3.700(a)(1)(iii) of this part applies, the Veteran must also have waived VA benefits. When notice provided by the Department of Defense contains information indicating that the monthly level of disability compensation for a veteran exceeds the veteran's monthly active service pay rate, the exception contained in this paragraph will only apply to a written or electronic statement provided to VA by the veteran.






(vi) An adverse action based upon a garnishment order issued under 42 U.S.C. 659(a).




(4) *Restoration of benefits.* VA will restore retroactively benefits that were reduced, terminated, or otherwise adversely affected based on oral information or statements if within 30 days of the date on which VA issues the notification of adverse action the beneficiary or his or her fiduciary asserts that the adverse action was based upon information or statements that were inaccurate or upon information that was not provided by the beneficiary or his or her fiduciary. This will not preclude VA from taking subsequent action that adversely affects benefits. 


(c) *Submission of evidence*—(1) *General rule.* VA will include in the record, any evidence whether documentary, testimonial, or in other form, submitted by the claimant in support of a pending claim and any issue, contention, or argument a claimant may offer with respect to a claim, except as prescribed in paragraph (c)(2) of this section and § 3.2601(f).


(2) *Treatment of evidence received after notice of a decision.* The evidentiary record for a claim before the agency of original jurisdiction closes when VA issues notice of a decision on the claim. The agency of original jurisdiction will not consider, or take any other action on evidence that is submitted by a claimant, associated with the claims file, or constructively received by VA as described in paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section, after notice of decision on a claim, and such evidence will not be considered part of the record at the time of any decision by the agency of original jurisdiction, except as described in § 3.156(c) and under the following circumstances:


(i) *Receipt of a complete claim.* The agency of original jurisdiction subsequently receives a complete application for a supplemental claim or initial claim; or


(ii) *Board and higher-level review returns.* A claim is pending readjudication after identification of a duty to assist error (which includes an error resulting from constructive receipt of evidence prior to the notice of decision), during a higher-level review or appeal to the Board of Veterans' Appeals. Those events reopen the record and any evidence previously submitted to the agency of original jurisdiction or associated with the claims file while the record was closed will become part of the evidentiary record to be considered upon readjudication.


(iii) *Constructive receipt of VA treatment records.* Records within the actual custody of the Veterans Health Administration are deemed constructively received by the Veterans Benefits Administration at the time when the Veterans Benefits Administration had knowledge of the existence of said records through information furnished by the claimant sufficient to locate those records (see 38 U.S.C. 5103A(c)).


(d) *The right to a hearing.* (1) Upon request, a claimant is entitled to a hearing on any issue involved in a claim within the purview of part 3 of this chapter before VA issues notice of a decision on an initial or supplemental claim. A hearing is not available in connection with a request for higher-level review under § 3.2601. VA will provide the place of hearing in the VA field office having original jurisdiction over the claim, or at the VA office nearest the claimant's home having adjudicative functions, or videoconference capabilities, or, subject to available resources and solely at the option of VA, at any other VA facility or federal building at which suitable hearing facilities are available. VA will provide one or more employees who have original determinative authority of such issues to conduct the hearing and be responsible for establishment and preservation of the hearing record. Upon request, a claimant is entitled to a hearing in connection with proposed adverse actions before one or more VA employees having original determinative authority who did not participate in the proposed action. All expenses incurred by the claimant in connection with the hearing are the responsibility of the claimant.


(2) The purpose of a hearing is to permit the claimant to introduce into the record, in person, any available evidence which he or she considers relevant and any arguments or contentions with respect to the facts and applicable law which he or she may consider pertinent. All testimony will be under oath or affirmation. The claimant is entitled to produce witnesses, but the claimant and witnesses must be present. The agency of original jurisdiction will not normally schedule a hearing for the sole purpose of receiving argument from a representative. It is the responsibility of the VA employees conducting the hearings to explain fully the issues and suggest the submission of evidence which the claimant may have overlooked and which would be of advantage to the claimant's position. To assure clarity and completeness of the hearing record, questions which are directed to the claimant and to witnesses are to be framed to explore fully the basis for claimed entitlement rather than with an intent to refute evidence or to discredit testimony.


(e) *The right to representation.* Subject to the provisions of §§ 14.626 through 14.637 of this title, claimants are entitled to representation of their choice at every stage in the prosecution of a claim.


(f) *Notification of decisions.* The claimant or beneficiary and his or her representative will be notified in writing of decisions affecting the payment of benefits or granting of relief. Written notification must include in the notice letter or enclosures or a combination thereof, all of the following elements:


(1) Identification of the issues adjudicated;


(2) A summary of the evidence considered;


(3) A summary of the laws and regulations applicable to the claim;


(4) A listing of any findings made by the adjudicator that are favorable to the claimant under § 3.104(c);


(5) For denied claims, identification of the element(s) required to grant the claim(s) that were not met;


(6) If applicable, identification of the criteria required to grant service connection or the next higher-level of compensation;


(7) An explanation of how to obtain or access evidence used in making the decision; and


(8) A summary of the applicable review options under § 3.2500 available for the claimant to seek further review of the decision.



---

[N] [55 FR 13527, Apr. 11, 1990; 55 FR 17530, Apr. 25, 1990, as amended at 55 FR 20148, May 15, 1990; 55 FR 25308, June 21, 1990; 57 FR 56993, Dec. 2, 1992; 58 FR 16360, Mar. 26, 1993; 58 FR 59366, Nov. 9, 1993; 59 FR 6218, Feb. 10, 1994; 59 FR 6901, Feb. 14, 1994; 66 FR 56613, Nov. 9, 2001; 76 FR 52574, Aug. 23, 2011; 77 FR 23129, Apr. 18, 2012; 84 FR 166, Jan. 18, 2019; 88 FR 86061, Dec. 12, 2023]




