# § 25.5   Administrative actions.

(a) *General.* The Board is authorized to take administrative actions in accordance with 12 U.S.C. 1708(c), including, but not limited to, the following: issue a letter of reprimand, probation, suspension, or withdrawal; or enter into a settlement agreement.


(b) *Letter of reprimand.* A letter of reprimand shall be effective upon receipt of the letter by the mortgagee. Failure to comply with a directive in the letter of reprimand may result in any other administrative action that the Board finds appropriate as provided by 12 U.S.C. 1708(c).


(c) *Probation.* Probation shall be effective upon receipt of the notice of probation by the mortgagee. Failure to comply with the terms of probation may result in any other administrative action that the Board finds appropriate as provided by 12 U.S.C. 1708(c).


(d) *Suspension*—(1) *Effect of suspension.* (i) During the period of suspension, HUD will not endorse any mortgage originated by the suspended mortgagee under the Title II program unless prior to the date of suspension:


(A) A firm commitment has been issued relating to any such mortgage; or


(B) A Direct Endorsement underwriter has approved the mortgagor for any such mortgage.


(ii) During the period of suspension, a lender may not originate new Title I loans under its Title I Contract of Insurance or apply for a new Contract of Insurance.


(2) *Effective date of suspension.* A suspension issued pursuant to § 25.7(d) is effective upon issuance. Any other suspension is effective upon receipt of the notice of suspension by the mortgagee.


(e) *Withdrawal*—(1) *Effect of withdrawal.* (i) During the period of withdrawal, HUD will not endorse any mortgage originated by the withdrawn mortgagee under the Title II program, unless prior to the date of withdrawal:


(A) A firm commitment has been issued relating to any such mortgage; or


(B) A Direct Endorsement underwriter has approved the mortgagor for any such mortgage.


(ii) During the period of withdrawal, a lender may not originate new Title I loans under its Title I Contract of Insurance or apply for a new Contract of Insurance. The Board may limit the geographical extent of the withdrawal, or limit its scope (e.g., to either the single family or multifamily activities of a withdrawn mortgagee). Upon the expiration of the period of withdrawal, the mortgagee may file a new application for approval under 24 CFR part 202.


(2) *Effective date of withdrawal.* (i) If the Board determines that immediate action is in the public interest or in the best interests of the Department, then withdrawal shall be effective upon receipt of the Board's notice of withdrawal.


(ii) If the Board does not determine that immediate action is necessary according to paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section, then withdrawal shall be effective either:


(A) Upon the expiration of the 30-day period specified in § 25.10, if the mortgagee has not requested a hearing; or


(B) Upon receipt of the Board's decision under § 25.10, if the mortgagee requests a hearing.



---

[N] [73 FR 60540, Oct. 10, 2008, as amended at 77 FR 51467, Aug. 24, 2012]




