# § 314.96   Amendments to an unapproved ANDA.

(a) *ANDA.* (1) An applicant may amend an ANDA that is submitted under § 314.94, but not yet approved, to revise existing information or provide additional information. Amendments containing bioequivalence studies must contain reports of all bioequivalence studies conducted by the applicant on the same drug product formulation, unless the information has previously been submitted to FDA in the ANDA. A complete study report must be submitted for any bioequivalence study upon which the applicant relies for approval. For all other bioequivalence studies conducted on the same drug product formulation as defined in § 314.3 of this chapter, the applicant must submit either a complete or summary report. If a summary report of a bioequivalence study is submitted and FDA determines that there may be bioequivalence issues or concerns with the product, FDA may require that the applicant submit a complete report of the bioequivalence study to FDA.


(2) Submission of an amendment containing significant data or information before the end of the initial review cycle constitutes an agreement between FDA and the applicant to extend the initial review cycle only for the time necessary to review the significant data or information and for no more than 180 days.


(b) *Field copy.* The applicant must submit a field copy of each amendment under § 314.94(a)(9). The applicant, other than a foreign applicant, must include in its submission of each such amendment to FDA a statement certifying that a field copy of the amendment has been sent to the applicant's home FDA district office.


(c) *Different listed drug.* An applicant may not amend an ANDA to seek approval of a drug referring to a listed drug that is different from the reference listed drug identified in the ANDA. This paragraph (c) applies if, at any time before the approval of the ANDA, a different listed drug is approved that is the pharmaceutical equivalent to the product in the ANDA and is designated as a reference listed drug. This paragraph (c) also applies if changes are proposed in an amendment to the ANDA such that the proposed product is a pharmaceutical equivalent to a different listed drug than the reference listed drug identified in the ANDA. A change of the reference listed drug must be submitted in a new ANDA. However, notwithstanding the limitation described in this paragraph (c), an applicant may amend the ANDA to seek approval of a different strength.


(d)(1) *Patent certification requirements.* An amendment to an ANDA is required to contain an appropriate patent certification or statement described in § 314.94(a)(12) or a recertification for a previously submitted paragraph IV certification if approval is sought for any of the following types of amendments:


(i) To add a new indication or other condition of use;


(ii) To add a new strength;


(iii) To make other than minor changes in product formulation; or


(iv) To change the physical form or crystalline structure of the active ingredient.


(2) If the amendment to the ANDA does not contain a patent certification or statement, the applicant must verify that the proposed change described in the amendment is not one of the types of amendments described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section. 



---

[N] [57 FR 17983, Apr. 28, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 47352, Sept. 8, 1993; 64 FR 401, Jan. 5, 1999; 73 FR 39609, July 10, 2008; 74 FR 2861, Jan. 16, 2009; 81 FR 69652, Oct. 6, 2016]




