# § 784.4   Notification, duration and frequency of complementary access.

(a) *Complementary access notification.* Complementary access will be provided only upon the issuance of a written notice by BIS to the owner, operator, occupant or agent in charge of the premises to be accessed. If BIS is unable to provide written notification to the owner, operator, or agent in charge, BIS may post a notice prominently at the location to be accessed.


(1) *Content of notice*—(i) *Pertinent information furnished by the IAEA.* The notice shall include all appropriate information provided by the IAEA to the United States Government concerning:


(A) The purpose of complementary access;


(B) The basis for the selection of the location for complementary access;


(C) The activities that will be carried out during complementary access;


(D) The time and date that complementary access is expected to begin and its anticipated duration; and


(E) The names and titles of the IAEA inspectors who will participate in complementary access.


(ii) *Request for location's consent to complementary access.* The complementary access notification from BIS will request that the location inform BIS whether or not it will consent to complementary access. If a location does not agree to provide consent to complementary access within four hours of its receipt of the complementary access notification, BIS will seek an administrative warrant as provided in § 784.2(a)(1).


(iii) *Availability of advance team from BIS.* An advance team from BIS will be available to assist the location in preparing for complementary access. If the complementary access is a 24-hour advance notice, then the availability of an advance team may be limited. The location requesting advance team assistance will not be required to reimburse the U.S. Government for any costs associated with these activities. The location (in cooperation with the advance team, if available) will make preparations for complementary access, including the identification of any ITAR-controlled technology and/or national security information at the location (see § 784.3(b)(3) of the APR).


(2) *Notification procedures.* The following table sets forth the notification procedures for complementary access. 


(3) *Timing of notification.* In accordance with the Additional Protocol, the IAEA shall notify the United States Government of a complementary access request not less than 24 hours prior to the arrival of the IAEA Team at the location. BIS will provide written notice to the owner, operator, occupant or agent in charge of the location as soon as possible after BIS has received notification from the IAEA.


(b) *Duration of complementary access.* The duration of complementary access will depend upon the nature of the complementary access request and the activities that will be conducted at the location. (See § 784.3(b) of the APR for a description of the types of complementary access activities authorized under the APR.) 




