# § 86.1829-15   Durability and emission testing requirements; waivers.

This section describes general testing requirements for certifying vehicles under this subpart, and includes several provisions allowing for statements of compliance instead of testing in certain circumstances. Where a manufacturer provides a statement instead of test data under this section, it must be based on previous emission tests, development tests, or other appropriate information, and on good engineering judgment.


(a) Durability requirements apply as follows:


(1) One durability demonstration is required for each durability group. The configuration of the DDV is determined according to § 86.1822. The DDV shall be tested and accumulate service mileage according to the provisions of §§ 86.1823, 86.1824, 86.1825, and 86.1831. Small-volume manufacturers and small-volume test groups may optionally use the alternative durability provisions of § 86.1838.


(2) Manufacturers may provide a statement in the application for certification that vehicles comply with the monitor accuracy and battery durability requirements of § 86.1815-27 instead of submitting test data for certification. The following durability testing requirements apply for battery electric vehicles and plug-in hybrid electric vehicles after certification:


(i) Manufacturers must perform monitor accuracy testing on in-use vehicles as described in § 86.1845-04(g) for each monitor family. Carryover provisions apply as described in § 86.1839-01(c).


(ii) Manufacturers must perform battery durability testing as described in § 86.1815-27.




(b) The manufacturer must test EDVs as follows to demonstrate compliance with emission standards:


(1) Except as specified in this section, test one EDV in each test group using the test procedures specified in this subpart to demonstrate compliance with other exhaust emission standards.


(2) Test one EDV in each test group using the test procedures in 40 CFR part 1066 to demonstrate compliance with cold temperature exhaust emission standards.


(3) Test one EDV in each test group to each of the three discrete mid-temperature intermediate soak standards identified in § 86.1811-27.


(4) Test one EDV in each evaporative/refueling family and evaporative/refueling emission control system combination using the test procedures in subpart B of this part to demonstrate compliance with evaporative and refueling emission standards.




(c) The manufacturer must demonstrate compliance with emission standards at low-altitude conditions as described in paragraph (b) of this section. For standards that apply at high-altitude conditions, the manufacturer may either perform the same tests or provide a statement in the application for certification that, based on an engineering evaluation of appropriate testing to measure or simulate high-altitude emissions, all vehicles comply with applicable emission standards at high altitude.


(d) Manufacturers may omit exhaust testing for certification in certain circumstances as follows:


(1) For vehicles subject to the Tier 3 PM standards in § 86.1811-17 (not the Tier 4 PM standards in § 86.1811-27), a manufacturer may provide a statement in the application for certification that vehicles comply with applicable PM standards instead of submitting PM test data for a certain number of vehicles. However, each manufacturer must test vehicles from a minimum number of durability groups as follows:


(i) Manufacturers with a single durability group subject to the Tier 3 PM standards in § 86.1811 must submit PM test data for that group.


(ii) Manufacturers with two to eight durability groups subject to the Tier 3 PM standards in § 86.1811 must submit PM test data for at least two durability groups each model year. EPA will work with the manufacturer to select durability groups for testing, with the general expectation that testing will rotate to cover a manufacturer's whole product line over time. If a durability group has been certified in an earlier model year based on submitted PM data, and that durability group is eligible for certification using carryover test data, that carryover data may count toward meeting the requirements of this paragraph (d)(1), subject to the selection of durability groups.


(iii) Manufacturers with nine or more durability groups subject to the Tier 3 PM standards in § 86.1811 must submit PM test data for at least 25 percent of those durability groups each model year. We will work with the manufacturer to select durability groups for testing as described in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section.


(2) Small-volume manufacturers may provide a statement in the application for certification that vehicles comply with the applicable Tier 3 PM standard instead of submitting test data. Small-volume manufacturers must submit PM test data for vehicles that are subject to Tier 4 PM standards.


(3) Manufacturers may omit PM measurements for fuel economy and GHG testing conducted in addition to the testing needed to demonstrate compliance with the PM emission standards.


(4) Manufacturers may provide a statement in the application for certification that vehicles comply with the applicable formaldehyde standard instead of submitting test data.


(5) When conducting Selective Enforcement Audit testing, a manufacturer may petition the Administrator to waive the requirement to measure PM emissions and formaldehyde emissions.


(6) For model years 2012 through 2016, a manufacturer may provide a statement in its application for certification that vehicles comply with the applicable standards instead of measuring N_2_O emissions. Such a statement may also be used for model year 2017 and 2018 vehicles only if the application for certification for those vehicles is based upon data carried over from a prior model year, as allowed under this subpart. No model year 2019 and later vehicles may be waived from testing for N_2_O emissions. Vehicles certified to N_2_O standards using a compliance statement instead of submitting test data are not required to collect and submit N_2_O emission data under the in-use testing requirements of § 86.1845.


(7) Manufacturers may provide a statement in the application for certification that vehicles comply with the mid-temperature intermediate soak standards for soak times not covered by testing.


(8) Manufacturers may provide a statement in the application for certification that medium-duty vehicles above 22,000 pounds GCWR comply with the off-cycle emission standards in § 86.1811-27(e) for all normal operation and use when tested as specified. Describe in the application for certification under § 86.1844-01(d)(8) any relevant testing, engineering analysis, or other information in sufficient detail to support the statement. We may direct you to include emission measurements representing typical engine in-use operation at a range of ambient conditions. For example, we may specify certain transient and steady-state engine operation that is typical for your vehicles. Also describe the procedure you used to determine a reference CO_2_ emission rate, e_CO2FTPFCL_, under § 86.1845-04(h)(6).


(9) For model year 2027 and 2028 vehicles subject to the Tier 4 PM standards in § 86.1811-27, a manufacturer may provide a statement in the application for certification that vehicles comply with the PM standard for −7 °C temperature testing instead of submitting PM test data.




(e) Manufacturers may omit evaporative or refueling testing for certification in certain circumstances as follows:


(1) For diesel-fueled vehicles, a manufacturer may provide a statement in the application for certification that vehicles comply with the refueling emission standard instead of submitting test data.


(2) For vehicles fueled by natural gas, a manufacturer may provide a statement in the application for certification that vehicles comply with evaporative emission standards instead of submitting test data. Compressed natural gas vehicles meeting the requirements for fueling connection devices in § 86.1813-17(f)(1) are deemed to comply with evaporative and refueling emission standards.


(3) For vehicles fueled by liquefied petroleum gas, a manufacturer may provide a statement in the application for certification that vehicles comply with evaporative and refueling emission standards instead of submitting test data, except that refueling tests are required for systems that allow venting during the refueling operation.


(4) Manufacturers may provide a statement in the application for certification that vehicles comply with the leak standard in § 86.1813 instead of submitting test data.


(5) For vehicles certified to the refueling emission standards in §§ 86.1811 or 86.1813, a manufacturer may provide a statement in the application for certification that vehicles comply with the fuel dispensing spitback standard instead of submitting test data.


(6) In lieu of testing vehicles for the supplemental two-diurnal test sequence, a manufacturer may optionally provide a statement of compliance in its application for certification that, based on the manufacturer's good engineering judgment, all vehicles in the evaporative/refueling emission family comply with the evaporative emission standard for the supplemental two-diurnal test sequence.


(i) The option to provide a statement of compliance in lieu of 2-diurnal evaporative certification test data is limited to vehicles with conventional evaporative emission control systems (as determined by the Administrator). EPA may perform confirmatory 2-diurnal evaporative emission testing on test vehicles certified using this option. If data shows noncompliance, it will be addressed through § 86.1851. Also, if data shows noncompliance, EPA will generally disallow subsequent waivers for the applicable evaporative family.


(ii) Manufacturers shall supply information if requested by EPA in support of the statement of compliance described in this paragraph (e)(6). This information shall include evaporative calibration information for the emission-data vehicle and for other vehicles in the evaporative/refueling family, including, but not limited to, canister type, canister volume, canister working capacity, canister shape and internal configuration, fuel tank volume, fuel tank geometry, the type of fuel delivery system (return, returnless, variable flow fuel pump, etc.), a description of the input parameters and software strategy used to control the evaporative canister purge, the nominal purge flow volume (in bed volumes) when vehicles are driven over the 2-diurnal (FTP) driving cycle, the nominal purge flow volume (in bed volumes) when vehicles are driven over the 3-diurnal (FTP + running loss) driving cycle, and other supporting information as necessary to demonstrate that the purge flow rate calibration on the 2-diurnal test sequence is adequate to comply with the evaporative emission standard for the supplemental two-diurnal test sequence.


(7) Where a California evaporative emission standard is at least as stringent as a comparable federal evaporative emission standard for a vehicle, we may accept test data demonstrating compliance with the California standard as demonstrating compliance with the comparable standard under this subpart. We may require you to provide test data clearly demonstrating that a vehicle tested using the California-specified test procedures will meet the comparable standard under this subpart when tested using the test procedures specified in this part.


(8) Through model year 2019, we may accept test data demonstrating compliance with the California refueling emission standard as demonstrating compliance with the analogous refueling emission standard under this subpart if all the following conditions apply:


(i) You certified the vehicles in model year 2016 to California's refueling emission standards.


(ii) You are certifying the vehicles to refueling standards for the new model year based on carryover data instead of performing new testing.


(iii) You are also certifying the vehicles for evaporative emissions based on California test procedures under the provisions of paragraph (e)(6) of this section.


(9) For complete vehicles above 10,000 pounds GVWR with fuel tanks exceeding 35 gallons nominal fuel tank capacity, and for any incomplete vehicles above 10,000 pounds GVWR, a manufacturer may provide a statement in the application for certification that vehicles comply with refueling emission standards instead of submitting test data, consistent with 40 CFR 1037.103(c).


(f) For electric vehicles and fuel cell vehicles, manufacturers may provide a statement in the application for certification that vehicles comply with all the emission standards and related requirements of this subpart instead of submitting test data. Tailpipe emissions of regulated pollutants from vehicles powered solely by electricity are deemed to be zero.


(g) Manufacturers must measure NMOG+NO_X_ emissions from −7 °C testing with Tier 4 diesel-fueled emission data vehicles and report values corresponding to submitted CO and PM test results in the application for certification. Note that it is not necessary to repeat NMOG+NO_X_ measurements for fuel economy, confirmatory, or in-use testing.





---

[N] [79 FR 23727, Apr. 28, 2014, as amended at 80 FR 9108, Feb. 19, 2015; 89 FR 28177, Apr. 18, 2024; 89 FR 50235, June 13, 2024]




