# § 881.207   Property standards.

Projects must comply with:


(a) [Reserved]


(b) In the case of congregate or single room occupant housing, the appropriate HUD guidelines and standards;


(c) HUD requirements pursuant to section 209 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 for projects for the elderly or handicapped;


(d) HUD requirements pertaining to noise abatement and control;


(e) The Lead-Based Paint Poisoning Prevention Act (42 U.S.C. 4821-4846), the Residential Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 4851-4856), and implementing regulations at part 35, subparts A, B, H, and R of this title; and


(f) Applicable State and local laws, codes, ordinances and regulations.


(g) *Smoke detectors*—(1) *Performance requirement.* After October 30, 1992, each dwelling unit must include at least one battery-operated or hard-wired smoke detector, in proper working condition, on each level of the unit. If the unit is occupied by hearing-impaired persons, smoke detectors must have an alarm system, designed for hearing-impaired persons, in each bedroom occupied by a hearing-impaired person.


(2) *Acceptability criteria.* The smoke detector must be located, to the extent practicable, in a hallway adjacent to a bedroom, unless the unit is occupied by a hearing-impaired person, in which case each bedroom occupied by a hearing-impaired person must have an alarm system connected to the smoke detector installed in the hallway.



---

[N] [45 FR 7085, Jan. 31, 1980, as amended at 52 FR 1893, Jan. 15, 1987; 57 FR 33851, July 30, 1992; 63 FR 46578, Sept. 1, 1998; 64 FR 50227, Sept. 15, 1999]




