# § 600.303-12   Fuel economy label—special requirements for flexible-fuel vehicles.

Fuel economy labels for flexible-fuel vehicles must meet the specifications described in § 600.302, with the modifications described in this section. This section describes how to label flexible-fuel vehicles equipped with gasoline engines. If the vehicle has a diesel engine, all the references to “gas” or “gasoline” in this section are understood to refer to “diesel” or “diesel fuel”, respectively. All values described in this section are based on gasoline operation, unless otherwise specifically noted.


(a) For qualifying vehicles, include the following additional sentence in the statement identified in § 600.302-12(b)(4): “This is a dual fueled automobile.” See the definition of “dual fueled automobile” in § 600.002.


(b) Include the following elements instead of the information identified in § 600.302-12(c)(1):


(1) The heading “Fuel Economy” near the top left corner of the field.


(2) The combined fuel economy value as determined in § 600.311 below the heading. Include the expression “combined city/hwy” below this number.


(3) The fuel pump logo and other logos as specified in § 600.302-12(b)(3)(ii) to the left of the combined fuel economy value.


(4) The units identifier and specific fuel economy values to the right of the combined fuel economy value as follows:


(i) Include the term “MPG” in the upper portion of the designated space.


(ii) Include the city fuel economy value determined in § 600.311 in the lower left portion of the designated space. Include the expression “city” below this number.


(iii) Include the highway fuel economy value determined in § 600.311 in the lower right portion of the designated space. Include the expression “highway” below this number.


(5) The fuel consumption rate determined in § 600.311, to the right of the fuel economy information. Include the expression “gallons per 100 miles” below the numerical value.


(6) Add the following statement after the statements described in § 600.302-12(c)(2): “Values are based on gasoline and do not reflect performance and ratings based on E85.” Adjust this statement as appropriate for vehicles designed to operate on different fuels.


(c) You may include the sub-heading “Driving Range” below the combined fuel economy value, with range bars below this sub-heading as follows:


(1) Insert a horizontal range bar nominally 80 mm long to show how far the vehicle can drive from a full tank of gasoline. Include a vehicle logo at the right end of the range bar. Include the following left-justified expression inside the range bar: “Gasoline: x miles”. Complete the expression by identifying the appropriate value for total driving range from § 600.311.


(2) Insert a second horizontal range bar as described in paragraph (*c*)(*1*) of this section that shows how far the vehicle can drive from a full tank with the second fuel. Establish the length of the line based on the proportion of driving ranges for the different fuels. Identify the appropriate fuel in the range bar.



---

[N] [76 FR 39561, July 6, 2011, as amended at 77 FR 63183, Oct. 15, 2012]




