# § 721.11218   Benzoic acid, 2, 3, 6-trifluoro, sodium salt (1:1).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as benzoic acid, 2, 3, 6-trifluoro, sodium salt (1:1) (PMNs P-17-434 and P-17-443, CAS No. 1803845-07-9) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i) and (iv), (a)(3) and (a)(6)(v) and (vi) (particulate), (b)(concentration set at 1.0%), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonable likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposures, where feasible.


(ii) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (e) (concentration set at 1.0%), (f), (g)(1)(i), (iii), (iv), (vi), and (ix), (g)(2)(i) through (iii) and (v), and (g)(5). Alternative hazard and warning statements that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(q). It is a significant new use to manufacture the substance other than in a liquid formulation and without the confidential engineering controls specified in the TSCA section 5(e) Order for P-17-443. It is a significant new use new use to use the substance other than as a tracer in aqueous solution, a solid blend with polymer, or a solid proppant bead form to measure flow in deep oil-bearing or gas-bearing strata or for the confidential use specified in the Order for P-17-443.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b)


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725 (b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section.



---

[N] [85 FR 1109, Jan. 9, 2020]




