# 6101.16   Subpoenas [Rule 16].

(a) *Expectation of cooperation in lieu of subpoena.* Subpoenas should rarely be necessary, as the Board expects parties to respond cooperatively to discovery requests and to try in good faith to secure the cooperation of third parties who have or may have evidence responsive to discovery requests.


(b) *Generally.* The Board may issue a subpoena for a purpose for which a United States district court may issue a subpoena under Rule 45(a)(1) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. Parties and the Board shall take all reasonable steps to avoid imposing undue burden on a person subject to a subpoena.


(c) *How requested; form.* A party may ask the Board to issue a subpoena by motion under Rule 8 (48 CFR 6101.8), substantially before the proposed compliance date. The movant shall attach to its motion a completed subpoena form for signing by a Board judge, and shall explain in the motion why the proposed subpoena scope is reasonable and how the evidence sought is relevant to the case.


(d) *Production cost.* The Board's policy is to require a requesting party to advance a subpoenaed person the reasonable cost of producing subpoenaed material.


(e) *Service.* The requesting party shall serve a subpoena and provide proof of service as would be required by Rule 45(b) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.


(f) *Motion to quash or modify.* On or before the date specified for compliance, a subpoenaed person may file a motion to quash or modify the subpoena for a reason stated in Rule 45(d)(3) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. The Board may rule on the motion any time after the party that served the subpoena receives the motion.


(g) *Enforcement.* As necessary, the Board may ask the Attorney General of the United States to petition a United States district court to enforce a Board subpoena.


(h) *Letter rogatory in lieu of subpoena.* If a person to be subpoenaed resides in a foreign country, the Board may facilitate the issuance of a letter rogatory to the person by the United States Department of State under 28 U.S.C. 1781-1784.




