# § 63.523   Standards for basic liquid resins manufacturers.

(a) Owners or operators of existing affected BLR sources shall operate sources such that the rate of emissions of hazardous air pollutants from all process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater systems combined shall not exceed 130 pounds per 1 million pounds of BLR produced, and comply with the dioxin and furans emissions limit for process vents specified in paragraph (e) of this section.




(b) Owners or operators of new or reconstructed affected BLR sources shall reduce uncontrolled emissions from the sum of uncontrolled process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater systems by 98 percent, or limit the total emissions from these emission points to 5,000 pounds per year.


(1) For process vents, uncontrolled emissions are defined as gaseous emission streams past the last recovery device.


(2) For storage tanks, uncontrolled emissions are defined as emissions calculated according to the methodology specified in § 63.150(g)(3).


(3) For wastewater systems, uncontrolled emissions are the total amount of HAP discharged to the drain system.


(c) Owners or operators of existing, new, or reconstructed affected BLR sources shall comply with the requirements of subpart H of this part to control emissions from equipment leaks. 


(d) For each existing, new, or reconstructed affected BLR source, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.521(c), the owner or operator must comply with the requirements of § 63.104 for heat exchange systems, with the exceptions noted in paragraphs (d)(1) through (8) of this section.


(1) When the term “chemical manufacturing process unit” is used in § 63.104, the term “existing, new, or reconstructed affected BLR source” shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.


(2) When the phrase “a chemical manufacturing process unit meeting the conditions of § 63.100(b)(1) through (b)(3), except for chemical manufacturing process units meeting the condition specified in § 63.100(c)” is used in the first sentence of § 63.104(a), the term “an existing, new, or reconstructed affected BLR source” shall apply for the purposes of this subpart. When the phrase “a chemical manufacturing process unit meeting the conditions of § 63.100(b)(1) through (b)(3),” is used in the last sentence of § 63.104(a), the term “an existing, new, or reconstructed affected BLR source” shall apply for purposes of this subpart.


(3) When § 63.104 refers to table 4 to subpart F of this part or table 9 of subpart G of this part, the owner or operator is required to consider all hazardous air pollutants.


(4) When § 63.104(c)(3) specifies the monitoring plan retention requirements, and when § 6 3.104(f)(1) refers to the record retention requirements in § 63.103(c)(1) of subpart F of this part, the requirements in § 63.527(d) shall apply, for the purposes of this subpart.


(5) When § 63.104(f)(2) requires information to be reported in the Periodic Reports required by § 63.152(c), the owner or operator shall instead report the information specified in § 63.104(f)(2) in the Periodic Reports required by § 63.528(a), for the purposes of this subpart.


(6) The compliance date for heat exchange systems subject to the provisions of this section is specified in § 63.521(c).


(7) Substitute “Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.521(c),” for each occurrence of “Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.100(k)(10),”.


(8) § 63.104(k) does not apply. Instead for each existing, new, or reconstructed affected BLR source, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.521(c), owners and operators must not inject water into or dispose of water through any heat exchange system in an affected source if the water is considered wastewater as defined in § 63.522.




(e) For each existing, new, or reconstructed affected BLR source, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.521(c), the owner or operator of a process vent that contains chlorine, hydrogen chloride, or any other chlorinated compound must reduce emissions of dioxins and furans (toxic equivalency basis) to a concentration of 0.054 nanograms per standard cubic meter on a dry basis corrected to 3 percent oxygen.





---

[N] [60 FR 12676, Mar. 8, 1995, as amended at 89 FR 43269, May 16, 2024]




