# § 620.1   Definitions.

For the purpose of this part, the following definitions shall apply:


(a) *Affiliated organization* means any organization, other than a Farm Credit organization, of which a director, senior officer or nominee for director of the reporting institution is a partner, director, officer, or majority shareholder. 


(b) *Association* means any of the associations as described in § 619.9050 of this chapter.


(c) *Bank* means any of the Farm Credit banks as described in § 619.9140 of this chapter.


(d) *Direct lender association* means any association that is a direct lender as described in § 619.9135 of this chapter.


(e) *Immediate family* means spouse, parents, siblings, children, mothers- and fathers-in-law, brothers- and sisters-in-law, and sons- and daughters-in-law.


(f) *Institution* means any bank or association chartered by the Act.


(g) *Loan* means any extension of credit or lease that is recorded as an asset of a reporting institution, whether made directly or purchased from another lender. The term “loan” includes, but is not limited to, loans originated through direct negotiations between the reporting institution and a borrower; purchased loans or interests in loans, including participation interests, retained subordinated participation interests in loans sold, interests in pools of subordinated participation interests that are held in lieu of retaining a subordinated participation interest in loans sold; contracts of sale; notes receivable; and other similar obligations and lease financings.


(h) *Material.* The term *material,* when used to qualify a requirement to furnish information as to any subject, limits the information required to those matters to which there is a substantial likelihood that a reasonable person would attach importance in making shareholder decisions or determining the financial condition of the institution.


(i) *Normal risk of collectibility* means the ordinary risk inherent in the lending operation. Loans that are deemed to have more than a normal risk of collectibility include, but are not limited to, any adversely classified loans.


(j) *Permanent capital* shall have the same meaning as set forth in § 615.5201 of this chapter.


(k) *Protected borrower capital* means eligible borrower stock as defined in § 615.5260 of this chapter.


(l) *Related association* means an association within the reporting bank's chartered territory that generates loans for the bank or whose operations the bank funds. 


(m) *Related bank* means a reporting association's funding bank or the bank for which it generates loans.


(n) *Related organization* means any Farm Credit institution that is a shareholder of the reporting institution or in which the reporting institution has an ownership interest.


(o) *Report* refers to the annual report, quarterly report, notice, or information statement, regardless of form, required by this part unless otherwise specified. 


(p) Signed, when referring to paper form, means a manual signature, and, when referring to electronic form, means marked in a manner that authenticates each signer's identity.


(q) *Significant event* means any event that is likely to have a material impact on the reporting institution's financial condition, results of operations, cost of funds, or reliability of sources of funds. The term “significant event” includes, but is not limited to, actual or probable noncompliance with the regulatory minimum permanent capital standards or capital adequacy requirements, stock impairment, the imposition of or entering into enforcement actions, execution of financial assistance agreements with other institutions, collateral deficiencies that impact a bank's ability to obtain loan funds, or defaults on debt obligations.



---

[N] [51 FR 8656, Mar. 13, 1986, as amended at 51 FR 42086, Nov. 21, 1986; 53 FR 3337, Feb. 5, 1988; 56 FR 29421, June 27, 1991; 56 FR 42649, Aug. 28, 1991; 58 FR 48791, Sept. 20, 1993; 59 FR 37406, July 22, 1994; 62 FR 15092, Mar. 31, 1997; 63 FR 39229, July 22, 1998; 67 FR 16633, Apr. 8, 2002; 70 FR 35357, June 17, 2005; 71 FR 5764, Feb. 2, 2006; 75 FR 18744, Apr. 12, 2010]




