# § 1.1411-5   Trades or businesses to which tax applies.

(a) *In general.* A trade or business is described in this section if such trade or business involves the conduct of a trade or business, and such trade or business is either—


(1) A passive activity (within the meaning of paragraph (b) of this section) with respect to the taxpayer; or


(2) The trade or business of a trader trading in financial instruments (as defined in paragraph (c)(1) of this section) or commodities (as defined in paragraph (c)(2) of this section).


(b) *Passive activity*—(1) *In general.* A passive activity is described in this section if—


(i) Such activity is a trade or business; and


(ii) Such trade or business is a passive activity with respect to the taxpayer within the meaning of section 469 and the regulations thereunder.


(2) *Application of income recharacterization rules*—(i) *Income and gain recharacterization.* To the extent that any income or gain from a trade or business is recharacterized as “not from a passive activity” by reason of § 1.469-2T(f)(2), § 1.469-2(f)(5), or § 1.469-2(f)(6), such trade or business does not constitute a passive activity within the meaning of paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section solely with respect to such recharacterized income or gain. 


(ii) *Gain recharacterization.* To the extent that any gain from a trade or business is recharacterized as “not from a passive activity” by reason of § 1.469-2(c)(2)(iii) and does not constitute portfolio income under § 1.469-2(c)(2)(iii)(F), such trade or business does not constitute a passive activity within the meaning of paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section solely with respect to such recharacterized gain.


(iii) *Exception for certain portfolio recharacterizations.* To the extent that any income or gain from a trade or business is recharacterized as “not from a passive activity” and is further characterized as portfolio income under § 1.469-2(f)(10) or § 1.469-2(c)(2)(iii)(F), then such trade or business constitutes a passive activity within the meaning of paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section solely with respect to such recharacterized income or gain.


(3) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the principles of paragraph (b)(1) of this section and the ordinary course of a trade or business exception in § 1.1411-4(b). In each example, unless otherwise indicated, the taxpayer uses a calendar taxable year, the taxpayer is a United States citizen, and Year 1 and all subsequent years are taxable years in which section 1411 is in effect:


(c) *Trading in financial instruments or commodities*—(1) *Definition of financial instruments.* For purposes of section 1411 and the regulations thereunder, the term *financial instruments* includes stocks and other equity interests, evidences of indebtedness, options, forward or futures contracts, notional principal contracts, any other derivatives, or any evidence of an interest in any of the items described in this paragraph (c)(1). An evidence of an interest in any of the items described in this paragraph (c)(1) includes, but is not limited to, short positions or partial units in any of the items described in this paragraph (c)(1).


(2) *Definition of commodities.* For purposes of section 1411 and the regulations thereunder, the term *commodities* refers to items described in section 475(e)(2).


(d) *Effective/applicability date.* This section applies to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2013. However, taxpayers may apply this section to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2012, in accordance with § 1.1411-1(f).



---

[N] [T.D. 9644, 78 FR 72424, Dec. 2, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 18160, Apr. 1, 2014]




