# ยง 2903.23   Definitions.

For the purpose of this program, the following definitions are applicable:


*Authorized departmental officer* or *ADO* means the Secretary or any employee of the Department who has the authority to issue or modify grant instruments on behalf of the Secretary. 


*Authorized organizational representative* or *AOR* means the president or chief executive officer of the applicant organization or the official, designated by the president or chief executive officer of the applicant organization, who has the authority to commit the resources of the organization. 


*Biodiesel* means a monoalkyl ester that meets the requirements of an appropriate American Society for Testing and Materials Standard. 


*Budget* period means the interval of time (usually 12 months) into which the project period is divided for budgetary and reporting purposes. 


*Department* or *USDA* means the United States Department of Agriculture. 


*Education activity* means an act or process that imparts knowledge or skills through formal or informal training and outreach. 


*Grant* means the award by the Secretary of funds to an eligible recipient for the purpose of conducting the identified project. 


*Grantee* means the organization designated in the award document as the responsible legal entity to which a grant is awarded. 


*Institution of higher education,* as defined in sec. 101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001), means an educational institution in any State that: 


(1) Admits as regular students only persons having a certificate of graduation from a school providing secondary education, or the recognized equivalent of such a certificate; 


(2) Is legally authorized within such State to provide a program of education beyond secondary education; 


(3) Provides an educational program for which the institution awards a bachelor's degree or provides not less than a two-year program that is acceptable for full credit toward such a degree; 


(4) Is a public or other nonprofit institution; and 


(5) Is accredited by a nationally recognized accrediting agency or association, or if not so accredited, is an institution that has been granted preaccreditation status by such an agency or association that has been recognized by the Secretary of Education for the granting of preaccreditation status, and the Secretary of Education has determined that there is satisfactory assurance that the institution will meet the accreditation standards of such an agency or association within a reasonable time. 


*OEPNU* means the Office of Energy Policy and New Uses.


*Peer review* is an evaluation of a proposed project performed by experts with the scientific knowledge and technical skills to conduct the proposed work whereby the technical quality and relevance to the program are assessed. 


*Prior approval* means written approval evidencing prior consent by an authorized departmental officer (as defined in this section). 


*Program* means the Biodiesel Fuel Education Program. 


*Project* means the particular activity within the scope of the program supported by a grant award. 


*Project director* or *PD* means the single individual designated by the grantee in the grant application and approved by the Secretary who is responsible for the direction and management of the project, also known as a principal investigator for research activities. 


*Project period* means the period, as stated in the award document and modifications thereto, if any, during which Federal sponsorship begins and ends. 


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Agriculture and any other officer or employee of the Department to whom the authority involved may be delegated.




