# § 1219.511   What definitions apply to this subpart?

For purposes of this subpart:


*181 Area* is defined at § 1219.411.


*181 South Area* is defined at § 1219.411.


*“181 Area in the Central Planning Area”* is comprised of the area of overlap of the two geographic areas defined at § 1219.411 as the “181 Area” and the “Central Planning Area.”


*2002-2007* Planning Area means any area—


(1) Located in—


(i) The Eastern Planning Area, as designated in the “Proposed Final Outer Continental Shelf Leasing Program 2002-2007,” dated April 2002;


(ii) The Central Planning Area, as designated in the “Proposed Final Outer Continental Shelf Leasing Program 2002-2007,” dated April 2002; or


(iii) The Western Planning Area, as designated in the “Proposed Final Outer Continental Shelf Leasing Program 2002-2007,” dated April 2002; and


(2) Not located in—


(i) An area in which no funds may be expended to conduct offshore preleasing, leasing, and related activities under sections 104 through 106 of the Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006 (Pub. L. 109-54; 119 Stat. 521) (as in effect on August 2, 2005);


(ii) An area withdrawn from leasing under the “Memorandum on Withdrawal of Certain Areas of the United States Outer Continental Shelf from Leasing Disposition,” from 34 Weekly Comp. Pres. Doc. 1111, dated June 12, 1998; or


(iii) The 181 Area or 181 South Area.


*Applicable leased tract (Phase II)* means a tract that is subject to a lease under section 8 of the OCSLA, for the purpose of drilling for, developing, and producing oil or natural gas resources, issued on or after December 20, 2006, and located fully or partially in either the 181 Area or the 181 South Area.


*Central Planning Area* is defined at § 1219.411.


*Coastal political subdivision* is defined at § 1219.411.


*Coastline* is defined at § 1219.411.


*Distance* is defined at § 1219.411.


*Eastern Planning Area* is defined at § 1219.411.


*Gulf producing State* is defined at § 1219.411.


*Historical lease site* means any tract in the 2002-2007 Planning Area leased on or after October 1, 1982, under section 8 of the OCSLA, for the purpose of drilling for, developing, and producing oil or natural gas resources.


*Leased tract* is defined at § 1219.411.


*Military Mission Line* is defined at § 1219.411.


*Qualified OCS revenues (Phase II)* means—


(1) In the case of fiscal year 2017 and each fiscal year thereafter, all rentals, royalties, bonus bids, and other sums received by the United States from leases that lessees enter(ed) into on or after December 20, 2006, located:


(i) In the 181 Area;


(ii) In the 181 South Area;


(iii) In the 2002-2007 Planning Area.


(2) Exclusions from the term *“Qualified OCS revenues (Phase II)”* are:


(i) Revenues from the forfeiture of a bond or other surety instrument securing obligations other than royalties;


(ii) Civil penalties;


(iii) Royalties “taken by the Secretary in-kind and not sold” (Pub. L. 109-432, Dec 20, 2006);


(iv) Revenues generated from leases subject to section 8(g) of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1337(g));


(v) User fees; and


(vi) Lease revenues explicitly excluded from GOMESA revenue sharing by statute or appropriations law.


(3) The term *“Qualified OCS revenues (Phase II)”* consists wholly of the two subsets defined as *“Qualified OCS revenues (Phase II—capped)”* and *“Qualified OCS revenues (Phase II—uncapped).”*

(i) *Qualified OCS revenues (Phase II—capped)* means, in the case of fiscal year 2017 and each fiscal year thereafter, the subset of qualified OCS revenues (Phase II) received by the United States from leases that lessees enter(ed) into on or after December 20, 2006, located:


(A) In the 181 Area in the Central Planning Area; or


(B) In the 2002-2007 Planning Area.


(ii) *Qualified OCS revenues (Phase II—uncapped)* means, in the case of fiscal year 2017 and each fiscal year thereafter, the subset of qualified OCS revenues (Phase II) received by the United States from leases that lessees enter(ed) into on or after December 20, 2006, located:


(A) In the 181 Area in the Eastern Planning Area, or


(B) In the 181 South Area.




