# § 65.5   Reporting requirements.

(a) *Required reports.* Each owner or operator of a regulated source subject to this subpart shall submit the following reports, as applicable: 


(1) A Notification of Initial Startup described in paragraph (b) of this section. 


(2) An Initial Notification for Part 65 Applicability described in paragraph (c) of this section. 


(3) An Initial Compliance Status Report described in paragraph (d) of this section. 


(4) Periodic reports described in paragraph (e) of this section. 


(5) Other reports shall be submitted as specified elsewhere in this part. 


(6) Startup, Shutdown, and Malfunction Reports described in § 65.6(c). 


(b) *Notification of Initial Startup*—(1) *Contents.* Any owner or operator of a regulated source which elects to comply with this part at initial startup shall send the Administrator written notification of the actual date of initial startup of a regulated source. 


(2) *Due date.* The notification of the actual date of initial startup shall be postmarked within 15 days after such date. 


(c) *Initial Notification for Part 65 Applicability.* Owners or operators of regulated sources that have been subject to a 40 CFR part 60, 61, or 63 standard, and who wish to comply with this part, and who are not operating the regulated source under an approved title V permit shall notify the Administrator of their intent. The notice shall include the information specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (7) of this section, as applicable, and may accompany the application for a construction permit for the regulated source. This notification may be waived by the Administrator. 


(1) Identification of the storage vessels subject to subpart C of this part. 


(2) Identification of the process vents subject to subpart D of this part, including process vent group status as specified in § 65.62(a). 


(3) Identification of the process vents subject to 40 CFR part 60, subpart DDD, complying with requirements of subpart G of this part. 


(4) Identification of the transfer racks subject to subpart E of this part. 


(5) For equipment leaks, identification of the process units subject to subpart F of this part. 


(6) The proposed implementation schedule specified in § 65.1(f)(1) for sources identified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section. 


(7) *Process unit identification.* As an alternative to requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section, the process units can be identified instead of the individual pieces of equipment. For this alternative, the kind of emission point in the process unit that will comply must also be identified. 


(d) *Initial Compliance Status Report*—(1) *Contents.* The owner or operator shall submit an Initial Compliance Status Report for each regulated source subject to this part containing the information specified in the subparts of this part. Unless the required information has already been submitted under requirements of the applicable referencing subpart, this information can be submitted as part of a title V permit application or amendment. 


(2) *Due date.* The owner or operator shall submit the Initial Compliance Status Report for each regulated source within 240 days after the applicable compliance date specified in the referencing subparts, or within 60 days after the completion of the initial performance test or initial compliance determination, whichever is earlier. Initial compliance Status Reports may be combined for multiple regulated sources as long as the due date requirements for all sources covered in the combined report are met. 


(e) *Periodic reports.* The owner or operator of a source subject to monitoring requirements of this part or to other requirements of this part where periodic reporting is specified, shall submit a periodic report. 


(1) *Contents.* Periodic reports shall include all information specified in subparts of this part. 


(2) *Due date.* The periodic report shall be submitted semiannually no later than 60 calendar days after the end of each 6-month period. The first report shall be submitted as specified in the following, as applicable: 


(i) The first report shall be submitted no later than the last day of the month that includes the date 8 months after the date the source became subject to this part or since the last part 60, 61, or 63 periodic report was submitted for the applicable requirement, whichever is earlier. 


(ii) For sources electing to comply with the CAR at initial startup, the first report shall cover the 6 months after the Initial Compliance Status Report is due. The first report shall be submitted no later than the last day of the month that includes the date 8 months after the Initial Compliance Status Report is due. 


(3) *Overlap with title V reports.* Information required by this part, which is submitted with a title V periodic report, need not also be included in a subsequent periodic report required by this part. The title V report shall be referenced in the periodic report required by this part. 


(f) *General report content.* All reports and notifications submitted pursuant to this part, including reports that combine information from this part and a referencing subpart, shall include the following information: 


(1) The name, address, and telephone number (fax number may also be provided) of the owner or operator. 


(2) The name, address and telephone number of the person to whom inquiries should be addressed, if different than the owner/operator. 


(3) The address (physical location) of the reporting facility. 


(4) Identification of each regulated source covered in the submission and identification of which subparts (referencing subparts and this part 65) options from this part are applicable to that regulated source. Summaries and groupings of this information are permitted. 


(g) *Report and notification submission*—(1) *Submission.* All reports and notifications required under this part shall be sent to the Administrator at the appropriate EPA Regional Office and to the delegated State authority, except that requests for permission to use an alternative means of emission limitation as provided for in § 65.8(a) shall be submitted to the Director of the EPA Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, MD-10, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, 27711. The EPA Regional Office may waive the requirement to receive a copy of any reports or notifications at its discretion. 


(2) *Submission of copies.* If any State requires a notice that contains all the information required in a report or notification listed in this part, an owner or operator may send the appropriate EPA Regional Office a copy of the report or notification sent to the State to satisfy the requirements of this part for that report or notification. 


(3) *Method of submission.* Wherever this subpart specifies “postmark” dates, submittals may be sent by methods other than the U.S. Mail (for example, by fax or courier). Submittals shall be sent on or before the specified date. 


(4) *Submission by electronic media.* If acceptable to both the Administrator and the owner or operator of a source, reports may be submitted on electronic media. 


(h) *Adjustment to timing of submittals and review of required communications*—(1) *Alignment with title V submission.* An owner or operator may submit periodic reports required by this part on the same schedule as the title V periodic report for the facility. The owner or operator using this option need not obtain prior approval, but must assure no reporting gaps from the last periodic report for the relevant standards. The owner or operator shall clearly identify the change in reporting schedule in the first report filed under paragraph (h) of this section. The requirements of paragraph (e) of this section are not waived when implementing this change. 


(2) *Request for adjustment.* An owner or operator may arrange by mutual agreement (which may be a standing agreement) with the Administrator a common schedule on which periodic reports required by this part shall be submitted throughout the year as long as the reporting period is not extended. An owner or operator who wishes to request a change in a time period or postmark deadline for a particular requirement shall request the adjustment in writing as soon as practical before the subject activity is required to take place. The owner or operator shall include in the request whatever information he or she considers useful to convince the Administrator that an adjustment is warranted. A request for a change to the periodic reporting schedule need only be made once for every schedule change and not once for every semiannual report submitted. 


(3) *Approval of request for adjustment.* If, in the Administrator's judgment, an owner or operator's request for an adjustment to a particular time period or postmark deadline is warranted, the Administrator will approve the adjustment. The Administrator will notify the owner or operator in writing of approval or disapproval of the request for an adjustment within 15 calendar days of receiving sufficient information to evaluate the request. 


(4) *Notification of delay.* If the Administrator is unable to meet a specified deadline, the owner or operator will be notified of any significant delay and informed of the amended schedule. 


(i) Unless already submitted in a previous report, an owner or operator shall report in a title V permit application or as otherwise specified by the permitting authority, the information listed in paragraphs (i)(1) through (5) of this section. This information shall be submitted to the Administrator if the regulated source is not a title V source. 


(1) A list designating each emission point complying with subparts C through G of this part and whether each process vent is Group 1, Group 2A, or Group 2B. 


(2) The control technology or method of compliance that will be applied to each emission point. 


(3) A statement that the compliance demonstration, monitoring, inspection, recordkeeping, and reporting provisions in subparts C through G of this part that are applicable to each emission point will be implemented beginning on the date of compliance as specified in the referencing subpart. 


(4) The monitoring information in § 65.162(e) if, for any emission point, the owner or operator of a source seeks to comply through use of a control technique other than those for which monitoring parameters are specified in §§ 65.148 through 65.154. 


(5) Any requests for alternatives to the continuous operating parameter monitoring and recordkeeping provisions, as specified in § 65.162(d). 




