# § 59.512   Addresses of EPA regional offices.

(a) All requests (including variance requests), reports, submittals, and other communications to the Administrator pursuant to this regulation shall be submitted to the Regional Office of the EPA through CEDRI which serves the State or territory for the address that is listed on the aerosol coating product in question. These areas are indicated in the following list of EPA Regional Offices:


(1) EPA Region I (Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, Vermont) Director, Enforcement and Compliance Assurance Division, U.S. EPA Region I, 5 Post Office Square—Suite 100 (04-2), Boston, MA 02109-3912, Attn: Air Compliance Clerk.


(2) EPA Region II (New Jersey, New York, Puerto Rico, Virgin Islands), Director, Division of Enforcement and Compliance Assistance, 290 Broadway, New York, NY 10007-1866.


(3) EPA Region III (Delaware, District of Columbia, Maryland, Pennsylvania, Virginia, West Virginia), Chief, Air Section, Enforcement & Compliance Assurance Division, Air, RCRA and Toxics Branch, U.S. EPA Region 3, 1650 Arch Street—3ED21, Philadelphia, PA 19103.


(4) EPA Region IV (Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee), Director, Air and Radiation Division, 61 Forsyth Street SW, Atlanta, GA 30303-3104.


(5) EPA Region V (Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio, Wisconsin), Director, Air and Radiation Division, 77 West Jackson Blvd., Chicago, IL 60604-3507.


(6) EPA Region VI (Arkansas, Louisiana, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Texas), Chief, Air Enforcement Branch, Enforcement and Compliance Assurance Division, Mail Code ECDA, 1201 Elm Street, Suite 500, Dallas, Texas 75270-2102.


(7) EPA Region VII (Iowa, Kansas, Missouri, Nebraska), Director, Air and Waste Management Division, 11201 Renner Boulevard, Lenexa, Kansas 66219.


(8) EPA Region VIII (Colorado, Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota, Utah, Wyoming), Chief, Air and Toxics Enforcement Branch, 1595 Wynkoop Street, Denver, CO 80202-1129.


(9) EPA Region IX (American Samoa, Arizona, California, Guam, Hawaii, Nevada), Chief, Air Division, 75 Hawthorne Street, San Francisco, CA 94105.


(10) EPA Region X (Alaska, Oregon, Idaho, Washington), Chief, Air Permits and Toxics Branch, Air and Radiation Division, 1200 Sixth Avenue, Suite 155, Seattle, WA 98101.


(b) Beginning on July 17, 2025, or once the notification/report template for this subpart has been available on the CEDRI website for six months, whichever date is later, regulated entities shall submit all notifications, reports, and other information required in § 59.511(b) through (j) following the procedure specified in § 59.511(l).



---

[N] [90 FR 5709, Jan. 17, 2025]






