# ยง 219.617   Participation in random alcohol and drug testing.

(a) *Railroad responsibility.* (1) A railroad must, under the conditions specified in this subpart and subpart H of this part, require a regulated employee selected for random testing to cooperate in alcohol and/or drug testing.


(2) If an employee is performing regulated service at the time he or she is notified of his or her selection for random testing, the railroad must ensure that the employee immediately ceases to perform regulated service and proceeds to the collection site without adversely affecting safety. A railroad must also ensure that the absence of an employee from his or her assigned duties to report for testing does not adversely affect safety. Once an employee begins the testing process, he or she may not be returned to regulated service until the testing process is complete.


(3) A railroad may excuse a regulated employee who has been notified of his or her selection for random testing only if the employee can substantiate that a medical emergency involving the employee or an immediate family member (*e.g.,* birth, death, or medical emergency) supersedes the requirement to complete the test. A medical emergency is defined in this part as an acute medical condition requiring immediate emergency care. To be eligible for exclusion from random testing, the employee must provide verifiable documentation of the emergency situation from a credible outside professional within a reasonable period of time (*e.g.,* a doctor, dentist, hospital, law enforcement officer, or school authority). A railroad may not test an employee who has been excused from testing under the same random selection.


(b) *Employee responsibility.* (1) A regulated employee subject to the random testing requirements of this subpart must cooperate with the selection and testing process, and must proceed to the testing site upon notification that he or she has been selected for random testing.


(2) A regulated employee must fully cooperate and comply with the body fluid drug collection and/or breath alcohol testing procedures required by subpart H of this part, and provide the required specimen(s), and must, upon request, complete the required paperwork and certifications.



---

[N] [81 FR 37937, June 10, 2016, as amended at 87 FR 5736, Feb. 2, 2022; 88 FR 27652, May 2, 2023]






