# § 32.28   Florida.

The following refuge units are open for hunting and/or fishing as governed by applicable Federal and State regulations, and are listed in alphabetical order with additional refuge-specific regulations.


(a) *Arthur R. Marshall Loxahatchee National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck and coot on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) You must possess and carry a signed current refuge hunt permit (signed brochure) while hunting. You must have on your person all applicable licenses and permits.


(ii) We prohibit hunting from all refuge structures, canals, and levees; within 
1/2 mile of canoe trails, campsites, and boat ramps; and in areas posted as closed. We allow motorized vessels in the Motorized Zone, south of latitude line 26°27.130. We allow nonmotorized vessels in the Refuge Interior. We allow only one motorized vessel per party.


(iii) Hunters may only enter and leave the refuge at designated entrances.


(iv) We allow only temporary blinds of native vegetation.


(v) Hunters must remove decoys and other personal property from the hunting area at the end of each day's hunt (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(vi) Hunters may only use boats equipped with factory-manufactured, water-cooled outboard motors; boats with electric motors; and nonmotorized boats. We prohibit boats with air-cooled engines, fan boats, hovercraft, and personal watercraft (jet skis, jet boats, wave runners, etc.). We allow airboats by permit only (Special Use Permit (FWS Form 3-1383-G)). We will issue airboat permits through a separate lottery. There is a 35 miles per hour (mph) speed limit in all waters of the refuge. A 500-foot (150-meter) “idle speed zone” is at each of the refuge's three boat ramps.


(vii) Hunters operating boats in the Refuge Interior, outside of the perimeter canal, are required to display a 10-inches by 12-inches (25-centimeters by 30-centimeters) orange flag 10 feet (3 meters) above the vessel's waterline.


(viii) We will allow the use of airboats for a limited number of duck and coot hunters by permit (Special Use Permit (FWS Form 3-1383-G)) during Phase 2 of the State duck and coot season only. We will issue airboat permits through a separate lottery. Contact the Refuge headquarters for airboat permitting information.


(ix) Motorized vessels used while hunting must be stopped and shut off for 15 minutes prior to shooting. Permitted motorized vessels must be in place 1 hour before legal sunrise and not move until 1 hour after legal sunrise.


(x) All hunters must leave the hunt area once their bag/tag limit has been reached.


(xi) We prohibit unrestricted airboat travel not associated with hunting.


(xii) All hunters younger than age 18 must be supervised by a licensed and permitted adult age 21 or older, and must remain with the adult while hunting. Hunters younger than age 18 must have completed a hunter education course.


(xiii) No entry and/or limited activity buffer zones or closures may be created to protect endangered or threatened species and other species.


(xiv) Licenses, permits, equipment, and effects and vehicles, vessels, and other conveyances are subject to inspection by law enforcement officers.


(2) [Reserved]


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of alligator, white-tailed deer, and feral hog on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (iii), (v) through (vii), and (x) and (xi) of this section apply.


(ii) We prohibit hunting from all refuge structures and levees; within 
1/2 mile of canoe trails, campsites, and boat ramps; and in areas posted as closed. We allow motorized vessels in the Motorized Zone, south of latitude line 26°27.130. We allow alligator hunting in the Motorized Zone and perimeter canal south of latitude line 26°27.130. We allow nonmotorized vessels in the Refuge Interior. We allow only one motorized vessel per party.


(iii) We allow alligator hunting on the refuge 1 hour before legal sunset on Friday night through 1 hour after legal sunrise Saturday morning, and 1 hour before legal sunset on Saturday night through 1 hour after legal sunrise Sunday morning. We allow alligator hunting the first two weekends during Harvest Period 1 (August) and the first two weekends during Harvest Period 2 (September). Following the close of Harvest Period 2, the remaining weekends in October will be open for alligator harvest permittees who possess unused CITES tags (OMB Control No. 1018-0093). Specific dates for the alligator hunt are on the harvest permit issued by the State.


(iv) Alligator hunters age 18 and older must be in possession of all necessary State and Federal licenses, permits, and CITES tags, as well as a signed refuge hunt permit (signed brochure) while hunting on the refuge. They must possess an Alligator Trapping License with CITES tag or an Alligator Trapping Agent License (State-issued), if applicable.


(v) Persons younger than age 18 may not hunt but may only accompany an adult age 21 or older who possesses an Alligator Trapping Agent License (State-issued).


(vi) You may take alligators using hand-held snare, harpoon, gig, snatch hook, artificial lure, manually operated spear, spear gun, or crossbow. We prohibit the taking of alligators using baited hook, baited wooden peg, or firearm. We allow the use of bang sticks (a hand-held pole with a pistol or shotgun cartridge on the end in a very short barrel) with approved nontoxic ammunition (see § 32.2(k)) only for taking alligators attached to a restraining line. Once an alligator is captured, it must be killed immediately. We prohibit catch-and-release of alligators. Once the alligator is dead, you must lock a CITES tag through the skin of the carcass within 6 inches (15.2 centimeters) of the tip of the tail. The tag must remain attached to the alligator at all times.


(vii) We allow the use of airboats for a limited number of alligator hunters by permit (Special Use Permit (FWS Form 3-1383-G)). Airboat permits will be issued through a separate lottery. Contact the refuge headquarters for airboat permitting information.


(viii) Alligators must remain in whole condition while on refuge lands.


(ix) We allow a limited quota permit for the taking of white-tailed deer and incidental take of feral hog in the Refuge Interior, by airboat (requires Special Use Permit (FWS Form 3-1383-G)) and nonmotorized vessels only. Airboat access will be for deer hunt permit holders only.


(x) White-tailed deer and feral hog hunters age 18 and older must be in possession of all necessary State and Federal licenses, permits, as well as a current refuge hunt permit (signed brochure) while hunting on the refuge.


(xi) We have limited quota and specialty hunts for the taking of white-tailed deer, and incidental take of feral hogs during the deer hunts on the Strazzulla Marsh and the Cypress Swamp.


(xii) Motorized vessels used while deer hunting must be stopped and shut off for 15 minutes prior to shooting. Permitted motorized vessels must be in place 1 hour before legal sunrise and not move until 1 hour after legal sunrise.


(xiii) We close the Refuge Interior to all other uses during the limited quota white-tailed deer hunt in the Refuge Interior.


(xiv) White-tailed deer hunters younger than age 18 must be supervised by a licensed and permitted adult age 21 or older, and must remain with the adult while hunting. Hunters younger than age 18 must have completed a hunter education course.


(xv) We prohibit the use of dogs for the take or attempt to take of white-tailed deer and feral hogs. We allow the use of dogs for blood trailing only.


(xvi) We require nontoxic ammunition (see § 32.2(k)) when deer hunting on the refuge.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow fishing on all areas of the refuge, except those areas posted as closed to fishing or closed to the public.


(ii) Anglers may only use boats equipped with factory-manufactured-water-cooled outboard motors, boats with electric motors, and nonmotorized boats. We prohibit boats with air-cooled engines, fan boats, hovercraft, and personal watercraft (jet skis, jet boats, wave runners, etc.). We allow the use of airboats by permit only (Special Use Permit (FWS Form 3-1383-G)). Airboat permits will be issued through a separate lottery. Contact the refuge headquarters for airboat permitting information.


(iii) We allow motorized vessels in the Motorized Zone, south of latitude line 26°27.130, and perimeter canal. We allow only nonmotorized vessels in the Non Motorized Watercraft Zone, northern portion of Refuge Interior.


(iv) Anglers operating boats in the Refuge Interior, outside of the perimeter canal, are required to display a 10-inches by 12-inches (25 cm x 30 cm) orange flag 10-feet (3 meters) above the vessel's waterline.


(v) We only allow the use of rods and reels and poles and lines, and anglers must attend them at all times. We prohibit the possession or use of cast nets, seines, trot lines, jugs, and other fishing devices.


(vi) We allow frog gigging, bow fishing, and fish gigging in all areas open to sport fishing, except in the A, B, and C Impoundments and Strazzulla Marsh.


(vii) We prohibit frog gigging, bow fishing, and fish gigging from structures and from within 
1/2 mile of refuge boat ramps, campsites, and canoe trails, and in areas posted as closed.


(viii) We allow the taking of frogs from July 16 through March 15 of each year.


(ix) The daily bag limit for frogs is 50 frogs per vessel or party.


(x) Fish and frogs must remain in whole condition while on refuge lands.


(xi) Frogs may only be taken by gig, blowgun, or hook and line, or by hand.


(xii) We limit frogging or fishing by airboat to nonhunting airboat permittees only.


(xiii) We prohibit commercial fishing, including unpermitted commercial guiding, and the taking of turtles and other wildlife (see § 27.21 of this chapter).


(xiv) We allow 17 fishing tournaments a year by Special Use Permit only (General Activities—Special Use Permit Application, FWS Form 3-1383-G).


(b) *Cedar Keys National Wildlife Refuge.* (1)-(3) [Reserved]


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow saltwater sport fishing year-round on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We close a 300-foot (90-meter (m)) buffer zone beginning at mean high tide line and extending into the waters around Snake Key to all public entry from March 1 through June 30 to protect nesting birds.


(ii) We conditionally open to public entry a 300-foot (90-m) buffer zone beginning at mean high tide line and extending into the waters around Seahorse Key from March 1 through June 30. Should birds nest in that area during that timeframe, we will close that area of Seahorse Key to public entry.


(c) *Chassahowitzka National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow migratory game bird hunting in designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) In Citrus County:


(A) You may take only ducks and coots.


(B) We allow waterfowl hunting on Wednesdays, Saturdays, and Sundays during those seasons established by the State of Florida.


(C) We allow the use of dogs when hunting migratory birds.


(D) We require hunters to possess and carry a signed, refuge hunting permit (signed brochure).


(E) We prohibit hunting within 100 yards (91.4 meters) of any residence or on navigable waterways of Chassahowitzka River, Seven Cabbage Cut-off, and Mason Creek.


(F) We allow temporary blinds and decoys, but you must remove all blinds and decoys from the refuge at the end of each day's hunt (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(ii) In Hernando County:


(A) All hunters in Hernando County must comply with the State of Florida Chassahowitzka Wildlife Management Area regulations.


(B) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (c)(1)(i)(C), (D), and (F) of this section apply.


(C) We allow hunting of geese, duck, and coot only on Wednesdays, Saturdays, and Sundays.


(D) We prohibit hunting within 100 yards (91.4 meters) of any residence.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* In Hernando County, we allow hunting of quail, squirrel, rabbit, feral hog, opossum, armadillo, beaver, coyote, skunk, and nutria as governed by State of Florida Chassahowitzka Wildlife Management Area regulations and subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (c)(1)(i)(C) through (F) and (c)(1)(ii)(D) of this section apply.


(ii) We prohibit the use of traps or snares to take game.


(iii) You may take feral hog, opossum, armadillo, beaver, coyote, skunk, and nutria as incidental species with the equipment legal for use during the season.


(3) *Big game hunting.* In Hernando County, we allow hunting of whitetail deer and turkey, as governed by State of Florida Chassahowitzka Wildlife Management Area regulations and subject to the following condition: The conditions set forth at paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section apply.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing in designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow fishing 24 hours per day, year-round, except in areas posted closed.


(ii) We prohibit harvesting and possession of frogs, horseshoe crabs, turtles, and snakes (see § 27.21 of this chapter).


(iii) We permit commercial activities, including guiding, with a Special Use Permit (Commercial Activities Special Use Permit Application, FWS Form 3-1383-C). You must apply for the permit.


(d) *Egmont Key National Wildlife Refuge.* (1)-(3) [Reserved]


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing year-round on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: Anglers may only use two poles per angler and must attend both poles at all times.


(e) *Everglades Headwaters National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of migratory game birds and the incidental take of nonnative wildlife as defined by the State on designated areas of the refuge in accordance with State regulations and applicable State Wildlife Management Area regulations.




(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow upland game hunting and the incidental take of nonnative wildlife as defined by the State on designated areas of the refuge in accordance with State regulations and applicable State Wildlife Management Area regulations and the following condition: We require the use of non-lead ammunition when hunting upland game and the incidental take of nonnative wildlife on the Corrigan Ranch/Okeechobee Unit.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow big game hunting and the incidental take of nonnative wildlife as defined by the State on designated areas of the refuge in accordance with State regulations and applicable State Wildlife Management Area regulations and the following condition: We require the use of non-lead ammunition when hunting big game and the incidental take of nonnative wildlife on the Corrigan Ranch/Okeechobee Unit.




(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge in accordance with State regulations and applicable State Wildlife Management Area regulations.


(f) *Florida Panther National Wildlife Refuge.* (1)-(2) [Reserved]


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We require a valid Florida Panther National Wildlife Refuge Big Game Quota Hunt Permit purchased through the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission. The quota hunt permit is a limited entry quota permit, and is nontransferable.


(ii) You must have a valid signed Florida Panther NWR turkey hunt brochure, which is free and non-transferrable.


(iii) Each Big Game Quota Hunt Permit is issued for the take of 1 bearded turkey. A family hunt/camp experience permit is issued for take of 2 bearded turkeys.


(iv) We allow bows, crossbows, PCP air guns propelling a bolt or arrow, and shotguns using #2 or smaller shot size.


(v) We require an adult, age 18 or older, to supervise hunters age 15 and younger. The adult must remain within sight and normal voice contact of the youth hunter.


(vi) Hunters possessing a valid Big Game Quota Hunt Permit purchased through the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission may access the refuge no earlier than 2 hours before legal sunrise and must leave the refuge no later than legal sunset. Hunters possessing a valid family hunt/camp experience permit may remain on the refuge overnight.


(vii) We allow hunting from 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise until 1 p.m.


(viii) We allow only federally approved nontoxic shot (see § 32.2(k)).


(ix) We only allow permitted hunters participating in the limited entry quota hunt to operate off-road vehicles (swamp buggies, all-terrain/utility-type vehicles) on designated roads, trails, and firebreaks.


(x) We allow hunters with permits to scout 7 days prior to the individual's permitted hunt.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow fishing from legal sunrise to legal sunset.


(ii) We only allow hook and line. We prohibit snatch hooks, cast nets, seines, trotlines, jugs, and yo-yos.


(g) *Hobe Sound National Wildlife Refuge.* (1)-(3) [Reserved]


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow fishing only from legal sunrise to legal sunset.


(ii) We allow salt-water fishing along the Atlantic Ocean and Indian River Lagoon year-round as governed by State recreational fishing regulations.


(iii) We allow the use of only rods and reels and poles and lines, and anglers must attend them at all times.


(iv) We allow only two poles per angler, and anglers must attend those poles at all times in conjunction with the Martin County, Florida, two-pole ordinance.


(h) *J. N. “Ding” Darling National Wildlife Refuge.* (1)-(3) [Reserved]


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing and crabbing in designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow the take of crabs with the use of dip nets only.


(ii) All anglers must exit refuge lands and waters no later than 
1/2 hour after legal sunset.


(iii) We prohibit the possession and use of seines or trot lines.


(iv) We prohibit the use of cast nets from the left (south) side of Wildlife Drive or any water control structure, bridge, boardwalk, or rip rap affixed to Wildlife Drive.


(v) All fish must remain in whole condition until removed from refuge lands and waters, except for fish caught and landed by individuals using the services of the refuge concessionaire at the Tarpon Bay recreation area. Those fish may be cleaned at the designated fish cleaning station in the concession area.


(vi) We prohibit the use of bows and spears from Wildlife Drive or any trail or structure affixed to Wildlife Drive.


(i) *Lake Woodruff National Wildlife Refuge.* (1)-(2) [Reserved]


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer, feral hog, and turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We require a valid Lake Woodruff Quota Hunt Permit, which can be purchased through the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission, and a valid Lake Woodruff National Wildlife Refuge hunt permit (signed annual hunt brochure), which is free and nontransferable.


(ii) All hunters must be on stands or in blinds during deer hunts.


(iii) We prohibit scouting in the hunt area during the quota hunt.


(iv) Hunters possessing a valid permit may access the refuge 2 hours prior to legal sunrise each hunting day. All hunters must leave the refuge within 2 hours of legal sunset.


(v) We allow stands or blinds to be set up 2 days prior to the permitted hunt, and you must remove them on or before the last day of your permitted hunt. You must clearly mark stands with the hunter's Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission (FWC) permit number found on your hunting license. No more than one stand or blind per person may be on the refuge at any time, unless a permitted hunter is accompanied by a youth hunter. You must place the stand and/or blind for a youth hunter within sight and normal voice contact of the permitted hunter's stand and mark it with the adult permitted hunter's FWC permit number and the word “YOUTH.”


(vi) If you use flagging or other trail marking material, you must print your FWC permit number on each piece or marker. You may set up flagging and trail markers 2 days prior to the permitted hunt, and you must remove them on or before the last day of the permitted hunt.


(vii) You must check out any game taken during the hunts at a self-check station.


(viii) You may access the Western Unit only by boat.


(ix) Hunters age 15 and younger do not need a quota permit, but they must be accompanied by an adult age 18 or older. Each adult may supervise one youth hunter and must remain within sight and normal voice contact of the youth hunter; the pair must share a single bag limit unless hunting during a designated family or youth hunt.


(x) We prohibit shotgun loads larger than #2 shot and slugs during turkey hunts.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We only allow use of hook and line. We prohibit cast nets.


(ii) We allow fishing from legal sunrise to legal sunset.


(iii) We prohibit the use of snatch hooks in the refuge impoundments.


(j) *Lower Suwannee National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck and coot on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We require all hunters, age 16 or older, to purchase and possess a general refuge hunting permit through the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission to hunt during all refuge hunts, unless otherwise exempt. We do not require youth hunters age 15 and younger to possess a general refuge hunting permit.


(ii) Every hunter must possess a signed refuge hunt brochure (signed brochure) while hunting on the refuge.


(iii) We prohibit hunting from or within 150 feet (45 meters) of all refuge roads open to public vehicle travel.


(iv) An adult (parent or guardian) age 18 or older must supervise and must remain within sight of and in normal voice contact of a youth hunter, age 15 or younger. An adult may not supervise more than two youths. Youth hunters must meet State hunter-education requirements.


(v) Clothes-type pins or clips with reflective or colored markings can be used for the temporary marking of vegetation in order to identify a route of travel to or from a tree stand. You must remove these pins at the end of deer season (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter). Each clothes-type pin or clip must contain the hunting license number of the hunter.


(vi) You may leave a temporary tree stand on refuge property starting 1 week before archery season, but you must remove it by the last day of hog season. All tree stands left on the refuge within the hunt season must display the hunter's hunting license number legibly written on or attached to the stand. You may also use a temporary tree stand during small game season, but you must remove it by the last day of the small game season.


(vii) Hunters must be at their vehicles by 1 hour after legal shooting time.


(viii) We prohibit cleaning of game within 1,000 feet (300 meters) of any developed public recreation area, game check station, or gate.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of feral hog, gray squirrel, armadillo, opossum, rabbit, raccoon, coyote, and beaver on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (j)(1)(i) through (viii) of this section apply.


(ii) Hunters may only hunt during designated days and times. The refuge prints dates for all the refuge hunting seasons in the annual refuge hunt brochure (signed brochure).


(iii) We allow night hunting for raccoon and opossum from legal sunset until legal sunrise as governed by State regulations.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of big game on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (j)(1)(i) through (viii) of this section apply.


(ii) During the refuge archery season, hunters may only use archery equipment, including crossbows, as governed by State archery regulations.


(iii) During the refuge muzzleloader season, hunters may only use muzzleloading firearms and archery equipment (see § 27.42 of this chapter) as governed by State muzzleloader regulations.


(iv) We prohibit organized drives. We define a “drive” as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause game to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the game.


(v) We allow hunting of deer (except spotted fawns), feral hog, gray squirrel, rabbit, armadillo, opossum, raccoon, beaver, and coyote during the archery season.


(vi) Hunters may take feral hog (no size or bag limit), and a maximum of two deer per day, during the family hunt, except only one deer may be antlerless for each day of the family and senior hunts.


(vii) Hunters must fill out a Harvest Report (FWS Form 3-2542) and check all game harvested during all deer and hog hunts.


(viii) Hunters may take only bearded turkeys and only during the State Zone C youth turkey hunts and spring turkey season.


(ix) Shooting hours for spring turkey begin 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise and end at 1 p.m.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We prohibit taking of frogs and turtles (see § 27.21 of this chapter).


(ii) We prohibit the use or possession of alcohol while fishing on the refuge.


(k) *Merritt Island National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck, merganser, and coot in designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) You must possess and carry a current, signed Merritt Island National Wildlife Refuge hunt permit (signed brochure, non-transferable) at all times while hunting waterfowl on the refuge.


(ii) You must carry (or hunt within 30 yards of a hunter who possesses) a valid State-issued Merritt Island Waterfowl Quota Permit, while hunting in areas 1 or 4 during the State's regular waterfowl season. The Waterfowl Quota Permit can be used for a single party consisting of the permit holder and up to three guests. The permit holder must be present. The Waterfowl Quota Permit is a limited entry quota permit, is zone-specific, and is nontransferable.


(iii) During the State's waterfowl season, we allow hunting on Wednesdays, Saturdays, Sundays, and the following Federal holidays: Thanksgiving, Christmas, and New Year's Day.


(iv) We prohibit hunters entering the normal or expanded restricted areas of the Kennedy Space Center (KSC).


(v) We allow hunting of waterfowl on refuge-established hunt days from 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise until 12 p.m. (noon). Hunters must remove all equipment and check out at the refuge check station prior to 1 p.m. each day.


(vi) You may enter the refuge no earlier than 4 a.m. for the purpose of waterfowl hunting.


(vii) We require an adult, age 18 or older, to supervise hunters age 15 and younger. The adult must remain within sight and normal voice contact of the youth hunter.


(viii) We prohibit hunting or shooting within 25 feet (7.6 meters), or shooting from any portion, of a dike, dirt road, or railroad grade.


(ix) We prohibit hunting or shooting within 150 yards (135 meters) of SR 402, SR 406, or any paved road right-of-way. We prohibit shooting over any dike or roadway.


(x) You must stop at a posted refuge waterfowl check station and report statistical hunt information on the Harvest Report (FWS Form 3-2542) to refuge personnel.


(xi) When inside the impoundment perimeter ditch, you may use gasoline or diesel motors. Outside the perimeter ditch, you must propel vessels by paddling, push pole, or electric trolling motor.


(2) [Reserved]


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow the hunting of white-tailed deer and feral hog in designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We require a State-issued Merritt Island National Wildlife Refuge Big Game Quota Hunt Permit. The Quota Hunt Permit is a limited entry quota permit, is zone-specific, and is nontransferable.


(ii) You must have a valid signed Big Game Hunt Permit (signed annual hunt brochure).


(iii) We prohibit hunters entering the normal or expanded restricted areas of the Kennedy Space Center (KSC).


(iv) We allow hunting within the State's deer season on specific days as defined by the refuge hunt brochure. Each hunt will be a 3-day weekend. Legal shooting hours are 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise to 
1/2 hour after legal sunset.


(v) Hunters possessing a valid permit (State-issued permit) may access the refuge no earlier than 4 a.m. and must leave the refuge no later than 2 hours after legal sunset. If you wish to track wounded game beyond 2 hours after legal sunset, you must gain consent from a Federal Wildlife Officer to do so.


(vi) We prohibit hunting from refuge roads or within 150 yards of roads open to public vehicle traffic or within 200 yards of a building or Kennedy Space Center facility.


(vii) Each permitted hunter may have one adult guest and one youth hunter per adult. All guests must remain within 30 yards of the permitted hunter. The party must share a single bag limit. Each adult may supervise one youth hunter and must remain within sight and normal voice contact.


(viii) You may set up stands or blinds up to 7 days prior to the permitted hunt; you must remove them on the last day of your permitted hunt. You must clearly mark stands and blinds with your Florida State customer identification (ID) number found on your hunting license. You may have no more than one stand or blind per person on the refuge at any time. You must place a stand or blind for a youth hunter within sight and normal voice contact of the supervisory hunter's stand and mark it with the supervisory hunter's Florida State customer ID number and the word “YOUTH.”


(ix) We prohibit all scouting in the hunt area during the quota hunt.


(x) If you use flagging or other trail-marking material, you must print your Florida State customer ID number on each piece or marker. You may set out flagging and trail markers up to 7 days prior to the permitted hunt, and you must remove them on the last day of the permitted hunt.


(xi) We allow hunters possessing a valid permit to scout within their permitted zones up to 7 days prior to their permitted hunts. You must carry your valid Quota Hunt Permit identifying the permitted hunt zone while scouting.


(xii) You must be on your stand or in your blind while hunting.


(xiii) We prohibit stalking or moving through the hunt area while hunting.


(xiv) We prohibit using dogs for tracking unless authorized by a Federal Wildlife Officer. Dogs must remain on a leash and be equipped with a GPS tracking device.


(xv) You may field dress game; however, we prohibit cleaning game within 150 yards of any public area, road, game-check station, or gate. We prohibit dumping game carcasses on the refuge.


(xvi) Archery hunters must wear at least 500 square inches (3,226 square centimeters) of solid fluorescent-orange color while moving to and from their vehicles, while moving to their stands or hunting spots, and while tracking or dragging out game.


(xvii) There is no bag limit or size limit for the take of feral hogs.


(xviii) You must stop at one of two check stations and report statistical hunt information on the Self-Clearing Check-In/Out Permit (FWS Form 3-2405).


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow recreational fishing, crabbing, clamming, and shrimping on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) You must possess a current, signed refuge fishing permit (signed brochure) at all times while fishing on the refuge.


(ii) We prohibit anglers entering the normal or expanded restricted areas of the Kennedy Space Center (KSC).


(iii) We prohibit fishing after legal sunset or before legal sunrise, except that we allow fishing at night from a vessel in the open waters of Mosquito Lagoon, Indian River Lagoon, Banana River, and Haulover Canal.


(iv) You may launch boats for night fishing and boating activities only from Bair's Cove, Beacon 42, and Biolab boat ramps.


(v) We prohibit crabbing or fishing from Black Point Wildlife Drive or any side road connected to Black Point Wildlife Drive except from L Pond Road.


(vi) We prohibit launching boats, canoes, or kayaks from Black Point Wildlife Drive or any side road connected to Black Point Wildlife Drive except from L Pond Road.


(vii) Anglers and crabbers must attend their lines at all times.


(viii) We prohibit harvesting and possession of horseshoe crab, frog, turtle, snake, and/or other wildlife (see § 27.21 of this chapter).


(ix) We prohibit use of personal watercraft, kite surfing, kite boarding, wind surfing, sail boarding, use of air-thrust boats, and use of hovercraft on the refuge or in refuge waters.


(x) We prohibit motorized vessels in the Banana River within the posted “No-Motor Zone,” including any vessel having an attached motor or a nonattached motor capable of use (including electric trolling motor).


(xi) We allow vessels drafting 12 inches (30 centimeters) or less (measured while vessel is fully stopped) to be propelled only by poling, paddling, drifting, or electric trolling motors in the established Pole & Troll Zone(s), except in the posted running channels.


(xii) We prohibit fish cleaning on refuge property.


(xiii) We prohibit fishing from, or in the immediate vicinity of, the Manatee Viewing Deck on the northeast side of Haulover Canal.


(xiv) When inside the impoundment perimeter ditch, you may use gasoline or diesel motors. Outside the perimeter ditch, you must propel vessels by paddling, push pole, or electric trolling motor.


(l) *Pelican Island National Wildlife Refuge.* (1)-(3) [Reserved]


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow fishing year-round.


(ii) We allow bank fishing from spoil islands during daylight hours only.


(m) *Pinellas National Wildlife Refuge.* (1)-(3) [Reserved]


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing year-round on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: We allow fishing only from vessels in the waters surrounding Tarpon Key.


(n) *St. Marks National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck and coot on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) You must remove blinds at the end of each day's hunt (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(ii) We allow the use of dogs to recover game.


(iii) Hunters may access the hunt area by boat.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of grey squirrel, rabbit, and raccoon on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We require refuge permits (signed brochure) for hunting upland game. Each hunter must possess and carry a signed refuge permit while participating in a hunt.


(ii) All hunters must wear 500 square inches (3,250 square centimeters) of fluorescent orange above the waistline while in a designated hunting unit during a refuge hunt.


(iii) You may only use .22 caliber or smaller rim-fire rifles, shotguns (#4 bird shot or smaller) (see § 32.2(k)), or muzzleloaders to harvest squirrel, rabbit, and raccoon. In addition, you may use shotgun slugs, buckshot, archery equipment including crossbows, center fire weapons, or pistols to take feral hogs.


(iv) We allow the use of leashed dogs for trailing injured or harvested game.


(v) We prohibit hunting from any named or numbered road (with the exception of persons hunting during the mobility-impaired hunt).


(vi) We prohibit cleaning of game within 1,000 feet (300 meters) of any residence, developed public recreation area, or game check station.


(vii) You must check out all game taken at a game check station. You must use the State harvest recording system to check out all white-tail deer harvested on the refuge.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer, feral hog, and turkey in areas and during seasons designated in the hunting brochure subject to the following conditions:


(i) We require State-issued refuge permits. Permits are nontransferable. Each hunter must possess and carry a signed permit when participating in a hunt.


(ii) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (n)(2)(ii) and (iv) through (vii) of this section apply.


(iii) We allow feral hog to be taken during any refuge hunt. There is no limit on the size or number of feral hogs that hunters may take.


(iv) There is a two deer limit per hunt, as specified at paragraph (n)(3)(vi) of this section, except during the youth hunt, when the limit is as specified at paragraph (n)(3)(vii) of this section. The limit for turkey is one per hunt.


(v) We prohibit the use of deer decoys.


(vi) The bag limit for white-tailed deer is two deer per hunt, either two antlerless deer or one antlerless deer and one antlered deer. State regulations define antlerless deer as deer with no antler or antlers less than 5 inches (12.75 centimeters). Antlered deer must have at least three points, 1 inch (2.5 centimeters) or greater on one antler, to be harvested.


(vii) There is one youth white-tailed deer hunt and one youth turkey hunt for youth ages 12 to 17. During these hunts, only the youth hunter may handle or discharge firearms used for hunting. An adult age 21 or older must accompany and remain in sight and normal voice contact of each youth hunter. There is no limit on the number of hogs a youth hunter may harvest during these hunts.


(A) *Youth white-tailed deer hunt harvest limits.* (*1*) Youth hunters age 12 to 15 may harvest two deer, either two antlerless deer or one antlerless and one antlered. State regulations define antlerless deer as deer with no antler or antlers less than 5 inches (12.75 centimeters). There are no restrictions on antler size for youth hunters age 12 to 15.


(*2*) Youth hunters age 16 or 17 may harvest two deer, either two antlerless or one antlerless and one antlered. State regulations define antlerless deer as deer with no antler or antlers less than 5 inches (12.75 centimeters). Antlered deer must have at least two points, 1 inch (2.5 centimeters) or greater on one antler, to be harvested by youth hunters age 16 or 17.


(B) *Youth turkey hunt harvest limit.* The limit is one bearded turkey per youth hunter.


(viii) Mobility-impaired hunters may have an assistant accompany them. You may transfer permits (State-issued permit) issued to the hunter to assistants. We limit those hunt teams to harvesting white-tailed deer and feral hog within the limits provided at paragraph (n)(3)(vi) of this section.


(ix) You may harvest one bearded turkey per hunt. You may only use shotguns or archery equipment, including crossbows, to harvest turkey. We prohibit hunting after 1 p.m.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We prohibit taking blue crabs from impounded water on the St. Marks Unit.


(ii) We only allow fishing in refuge lakes, ponds, and impoundments from 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise to 
1/2 hour after legal sunset.


(iii) We allow fishing in tidal and coastal waters 24 hours per day year-round.


(iv) We prohibit taking of frogs or turtles (see § 27.21 of this chapter).


(v) We prohibit use of cast nets or traps to take fish from any lake, pond, or impoundment on the refuge.


(vi) You must attend all fishing equipment.


(vii) We prohibit bow fishing on refuge lakes, ponds, and impoundments.


(viii) The interior ponds and lakes on the Panacea Unit are open year-round for bank fishing. We open vehicle access to these areas from March 15 through May 15 each year. Ponds and lakes that anglers access from County Road 372 are open year-round for fishing and boating.


(o) *St. Vincent National Wildlife Refuge.* (1)-(2) [Reserved]


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer, sambar deer, raccoon, and feral hog on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We require refuge permits (hunters apply through State for license, and the State charges a fee). The permits are nontransferable, and the hunter must possess them while hunting. Only signed permits are valid. We only allow people with a signed refuge hunt permit or the helpers of mobility-impaired hunters on the island during the hunt periods.


(ii) We authorize three refuge hunts: Sambar deer, white-tailed deer archery, and white-tailed deer muzzleloader. During the sambar deer hunt, only sambar deer, feral hog, and raccoon can be harvested. During the white-tailed deer hunts, only white-tailed deer, feral hog, and raccoon can be harvested.


(iii) We restrict access to St. Vincent Island to the Indian Pass and West Pass campsites. The hunt brochure lists check-in and check-out procedures. We restrict access to the hunt areas to foot or bicycle travel.


(iv) Hunt hours are 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise until 3 p.m. for the sambar deer hunt.


(v) You may set up tree stands only after you check in, and you must remove them from the island at the end of the hunt (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).


(vi) You may retrieve game from the closed areas only if accompanied by a refuge staff member or a Federal Wildlife Officer.


(vii) We limit weapons to primitive weapons (bow and arrow, muzzleloader, and crossbow) on the primitive weapons sambar deer hunt and the primitive weapons white-tailed deer hunt. We limit the archery hunt to bow and arrow, and crossbow. You may take feral hog and raccoon only with the weapons allowed for that period.


(viii) We allow only stand, still, and stalk hunting. We prohibit organized deer drives. We define a “deer drive” as an organized or planned effort to pursue, drive, chase, or otherwise frighten or cause deer to move in the direction of any person(s) who is part of the organized or planned hunt and known to be waiting for the deer.


(ix) You may only discharge muzzleloaders at the designated discharge area between 5 a.m. and 9 p.m.


(x) Hunters must check out at the check station prior to leaving the refuge at the end of their hunt. A refuge staff member or volunteer must check the campsites before the hunters leave the refuge.


(xi) Bag limits are:


(A) *Muzzleloader weapons sambar deer hunt.* One sambar deer of either sex; no limit on feral hog or raccoon.


(B) *Archery hunt.* One white-tailed deer of either sex. Antlered deer must have at least two points, 1 inch (2.5 centimeters) or more on one antler, to be harvested. State regulations define antlerless deer as deer with no antler or antlers less than 5 inches (12.75 centimeters). Youth age 15 or younger may harvest any deer except spotted fawn. We prohibit harvesting of spotted fawns. There is no limit on feral hog or raccoon.


(C) *Muzzleloader weapons white-tailed deer hunt.* One white-tailed deer. Antlered deer must have at least two points, 1 inch (2.5 centimeters) or more in length on one antler, to be harvested. We issue a limited number of either-sex tags. If you have an either-sex tag, the bag limit is one deer that may be antlerless or antlered with legal antler configuration. State regulations define antlerless deer as deer with no antler or antlers less than 5 inches (12.75 centimeters). Youth age 15 or younger may harvest any deer except spotted fawn. We prohibit harvesting of spotted fawns. There is no limit on feral hog or raccoon.


(xii) We prohibit bringing live game into the check station.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) You may fish from 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise to 
1/2 hour after legal sunset year-round.


(ii) We prohibit the use of live minnows as bait.


(iii) We allow the use of only rods and reels or poles and lines in refuge lakes. Anglers must attend their fishing equipment at all times.


(iv) We prohibit the taking of frog and/or turtle (see § 27.21 of this chapter).


(p) *Ten Thousand Islands National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of duck and coot on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow hunting each day during the early wood duck/teal season.


(ii) We allow hunting only on Wednesdays, Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays that fall within the State's waterfowl season, including Thanksgiving, Christmas, and New Year's Day.


(iii) Hunters must possess and carry a valid, signed refuge permit (signed brochure) at all times while hunting on the refuge.


(iv) We allow hunting from 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise until 12 p.m. (noon). Hunters may enter the refuge no earlier than 4 a.m. and must remove all decoys, guns, blinds, and other related equipment by 1 p.m. each day (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(v) We prohibit hunting within 100 yards (90 meters) of the south edge of U.S. 41 and the area posted around Marsh Trail extending south from U.S. 41.


(vi) We allow the use of dogs for waterfowl retrieval and prehunt scouting.


(2)-(3) [Reserved]


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing and crabbing on the refuge on designated areas subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow fishing in the freshwater and brackish marsh area of the refuge year-round from legal sunrise to legal sunset.


(ii) We prohibit the taking of snake, turtle, frog, and other wildlife in the freshwater and brackish marsh area of the refuge (see § 27.21 of this chapter).


(iii) We prohibit the use of trotlines, gigs, spears, bush hooks, and snatch hooks in the freshwater and brackish marsh area of the refuge.


(iv) Anglers and crabbers must attend their lines at all times.



---

[N] [84 FR 47675, Sept. 10, 2019, as amended at 85 FR 54107, Aug. 31, 2020; 86 FR 48857, Aug. 31, 2021; 88 FR 74063, Oct. 30, 2023]










