# § 60.701   Definitions.

As used in this subpart, all terms not defined here shall have the meaning given them in the Act and in subpart A of part 60, and the following terms shall have the specific meanings given them. 


*Batch operation* means any noncontinuous reactor process that is not characterized by steady-state conditions and in which reactants are not added and products are not removed simultaneously. 


*Boiler* means any enclosed combustion device that extracts useful energy in the form of steam and is not an incinerator. 


*By compound* means by individual stream components, not carbon equivalents.


*Car-seal* means a seal that is placed on a device that is used to change the position of a valve (e.g., from opened to closed) in such a way that the position of the valve cannot be changed without breaking the seal. 


*Combustion device* means an individual unit of equipment, such as an incinerator, flare, boiler, or process heater, used for combustion of a vent stream discharged from the process vent. 


*Continuous recorder* means a data recording device recording an instantaneous data value at least once every 15 minutes. 


*Flame zone* means the portion of the combustion chamber in a boiler or process heater occupied by the flame envelope. 


*Flow indicator* means a device which indicates whether gas flow is present in a line. 


*Halogenated vent stream* means any vent stream determined to have a total concentration (by volume) of compounds containing halogens of 20 ppmv (by compound) or greater. 


*Incinerator* means an enclosed combustion device that is used for destroying organic compounds. If there is energy recovery, the energy recovery section and the combustion chambers are not of integral design. That is, the energy recovery section and the combustion section are not physically formed into one manufactured or assembled unit but are joined by ducts or connections carrying flue gas. 


*Primary fuel* means the fuel fired through a burner or a number of similar burners. The primary fuel provides the principal heat input to the device, and the amount of fuel is sufficient to sustain operation without the addition of other fuels. 


*Process heater* means a device that transfers heat liberated by burning fuel directly to process streams or to heat transfer liquids other than water. 


*Process unit* means equipment assembled and connected by pipes or ducts to produce, as intermediates or final products, one or more of the chemicals in § 60.707. A process unit can operate independently if supplied with sufficient feed or raw materials and sufficient product storage facilities. 


*Product* means any compound or chemical listed in § 60.707 which is produced for sale as a final product as that chemical, or for use in the production of other chemicals or compounds. By-products, co-products, and intermediates are considered to be products. 


*Reactor processes* are unit operations in which one or more chemicals, or reactants other than air, are combined or decomposed in such a way that their molecular structures are altered and one or more new organic compounds are formed. 


*Recovery device* means an individual unit of equipment, such as an absorber, carbon adsorber, or condenser, capable of and used for the purpose of recovering chemicals for use, reuse, or sale. 


*Recovery system* means an individual recovery device or series of such devices applied to the same vent stream. 


*Relief valve* means a valve used only to release an unplanned, nonroutine discharge. A relief valve discharge results from an operator error, a malfunction such as a power failure or equipment failure, or other unexpected cause that requires immediate venting of gas from process equipment in order to avoid safety hazards or equipment damage. 


*Secondary fuel* means a fuel fired through a burner other than a primary fuel burner. The secondary fuel may provide supplementary heat in addition to the heat provided by the primary fuel. 


*Total organic compounds or TOC* means those compounds measured according to the procedures in § 60.704(b)(4). For the purposes of measuring molar composition as required in § 60.704(d)(2)(i) and § 60.704(d)(2)(ii), hourly emission rate as required in § 60.704(d)(5) and § 60.704(e), and TOC concentration as required in § 60.705(b)(4) and § 60.705(f)(4), those compounds which the Administrator has determined do not contribute appreciably to the formation of ozone are to be excluded. 


*Total resource effectiveness or TRE index value* means a measure of the supplemental total resource requirement per unit reduction of TOC associated with a vent stream from an affected reactor process facility, based on vent stream flow rate, emission rate of TOC, net heating value, and corrosion properties (whether or not the vent stream contains halogenated compounds), as quantified by the equation given under § 60.704(e). 


*Vent stream* means any gas stream discharged directly from a reactor process to the atmosphere or indirectly to the atmosphere after diversion through other process equipment. The vent stream excludes relief valve discharges and equipment leaks. 



---

[N] [58 FR 45962, Aug. 31, 1993, as amended at 89 FR 43128, May 16, 2024]




