# § 5001.207   Environmental responsibilities.

Actions taken under this part must comply with 7 CFR part 1970. The Agency is responsible for ensuring that the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (under 40 CFR part 1500) and related compliance actions, such as Section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act (under 36 CFR part 800) and section 7 of the Endangered Species Act, are met. The Agency will complete the appropriate level of environmental review in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970, “Environmental Policies and Procedures.”


(a) *Borrower and lender responsibilities.* Both the borrower and lender must take into consideration the potential environmental impacts of the project at the earliest planning stages. The Agency recommends that the lender contact the Agency to determine environmental requirements as soon as practicable after deciding to apply for a guarantee under this part.


(1) The lender is responsible for becoming familiar and ensuring compliance with Federal environmental requirements. The lender must alert the Agency to any environmental issues related to a project or items that may require extensive environmental review. Proposals that minimize the potential of any project to adversely impact the environment must be developed and provided upon request by the Agency.




(2) The lender must ensure that the borrower has—


(i) Provided the necessary environmental information to enable the Agency to undertake its environmental review process in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970, including the provision of all required Federal, State, and local permits;


(ii) Not taken any actions or incurred any obligations with respect to the project that would either limit the range of alternatives to be considered during the Agency's environmental review process or which would have an adverse impact on the environment, such as the initiation of construction. Taking any such actions or incurring any such obligations could result in project ineligibility; and


(iii) Complied with any environmental mitigation measures required by the Agency.


(b) *Environmental reviews.* The Agency must complete all required environmental reviews, identifying and addressing, as appropriate, disproportionately high and adverse human health or environmental effects on minority populations and low-income populations, in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970.


(1) The Agency may schedule a site visit if the Agency determines one is necessary in order to determine the scope of the environmental review.


(2) The lender must assist in the collection of additional data when the Agency needs such data to complete its environmental review of the project and mitigation of environmental issues.





---

[N] [85 FR 42518, July 14, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 79720, Sept. 30, 2024]








