# ยง 488.1115   Surveyor qualifications and prohibition of conflicts of interest.

(a)* Minimum qualifications.* Surveyors must meet minimum qualifications prescribed by CMS. Before any accrediting organization, State or Federal surveyor may serve on a hospice survey team (except as a trainee), he/she must have successfully completed the relevant CMS-sponsored Basic Hospice Surveyor Training Course, and additional training as specified by CMS.


(b) *Disqualifications.* Surveyor(s) must disclose actual or perceived conflicts of interest prior to participating in a hospice program survey and be provided the opportunity to recuse themselves as necessary. Any of the following circumstances disqualifies a surveyor from surveying a particular hospice program:


(1) The surveyor currently serves, or, within the previous 2 years has served, with the hospice program to be surveyed as one of the following:


(i) A direct employee.


(ii) An employment agency staff at the hospice program.


(iii) An officer, consultant, or agent for the hospice program to be surveyed concerning compliance with conditions of participation specified in or in accordance with sections 1861(dd) of the Act.


(2) The surveyor has a financial interest or an ownership interest in the hospice program to be surveyed.


(3) The surveyor has an immediate family member, as defined at ยง 411.351 of this chapter, who has a financial interest or an ownership interest with the hospice program to be surveyed.


(4) The surveyor has an immediate family member, as defined at ยง 411.351 of this chapter, who is a patient of the hospice program to be surveyed.




