# § 98.93   Calculating GHG emissions.

(a) You must calculate total annual emissions of each fluorinated GHG emitted by electronics manufacturing production processes from each fab (as defined in § 98.98) at your facility, including each input gas and each by-product gas. You must use either default gas utilization rates and by-product formations rates according to the procedures in paragraph (a)(1), (2), (6), or (7) of this section, as appropriate, or the stack test method according to paragraph (i) of this section, to calculate emissions of each input gas and each by-product gas.


(1) If you manufacture semiconductors, you must adhere to the procedures in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section. You must calculate annual emissions of each input gas and of each by-product gas using equations I-6, I-7, and I-9 to this section. If your fab uses less than 50 kg of a fluorinated GHG in one reporting year, you may calculate emissions as equal to your fab's annual consumption for that specific gas as calculated in equation I-11 to this section, plus any by-product emissions of that gas calculated under paragraph (a) of this section.


(i) You must calculate annual fab-level emissions of each fluorinated GHG used for the plasma etching/wafer cleaning process type using default utilization and by-product formation rates as shown in table I-3 or I-4 to this subpart, and by using equations I-8A and I-8B to this section.


(ii) You must calculate annual fab-level emissions of each fluorinated GHG used for each of the process sub-types associated with the chamber cleaning process type, including in-situ plasma chamber clean, remote plasma chamber clean, and in-situ thermal chamber clean, using default utilization and by-product formation rates as shown in table I-3 or I-4 to this subpart, and by using equations I-8A and I-8B to this section.


(iii) If default values are not available for a particular input gas and process type or sub-type combination in tables I-3 or I-4, you must follow the procedures in paragraph (a)(6) of this section.


(2) If you manufacture MEMS or PVs and use semiconductor tools and processes, you may use § 98.3(a)(1) to calculate annual fab-level emissions for those processes. For all other tools and processes used to manufacture MEMs, LCD and PV, you must calculate annual fab-level emissions of each fluorinated GHG used for the plasma etching and chamber cleaning process types using default utilization and by-product formation rates as shown in table I-5, I-6, or I-7 to this subpart, as appropriate, and by using equations I-8A and I-8B to this section. If default values are not available for a particular input gas and process type or sub-type combination in tables I-5, I-6, or I-7 to this subpart, you must follow the procedures in paragraph (a)(6) of this section. If your fab uses less than 50 kg of a fluorinated GHG in one reporting year, you may calculate emissions as equal to your fab's annual consumption for that specific gas as calculated in equation I-11 to this section, plus any by-product emissions of that gas calculated under this paragraph (a).


(3)-(5) [Reserved]


(6) If you are required, or elect, to perform calculations using default emission factors for gas utilization and by-product formation rates according to the procedures in paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section, and default values are not available for a particular input gas and process type or sub-type combination in tables I-3, I-4, I-5, I-6, or I-7 to this subpart, you must use a utilization rate (U_ij_) of 0.2 (*i.e.,* a 1-U_ij_ of 0.8) and by-product formation rates of 0.15 for CF_4_ and 0.05 for C_2_F_6_ and use equations I-8A and I-8B to this section.


(7) If your fab employs hydrocarbon-fuel-based combustion emissions control systems (HC fuel CECS), including, but not limited to, abatement systems as defined at § 98.98, that were purchased and installed on or after January 1, 2025, to control emissions from tools that use either NF_3_ in remote plasma cleaning processes or F_2_ as an input gas in any process type or sub-type, you must calculate the amount CF_4_ produced within and emitted from such systems using equation I-9 to this section using default utilization and by-product formation rates as shown in table I-3 or I-4 to this subpart. A HC fuel CECS is assumed not to form CF_4_ from F_2_ if the electronics manufacturer can certify that the rate of conversion from F_2_ to CF_4_ is <0.1% for that HC fuel CECS.


(b) You must calculate annual fab-level N_2_O emissions from all chemical vapor deposition processes and from the aggregate of all other electronics manufacturing production processes using Equation I-10 of this subpart and the methods in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section. If your fab uses less than 50 kg of N_2_O in one reporting year, you may calculate fab emissions as equal to your fab's annual consumption for N_2_O as calculated in Equation I-11 of this subpart.


(1) You must use the factor for N_2_O utilization for chemical vapor deposition processes as shown in Table I-8 to this subpart.


(2) You must use the factor for N_2_O utilization for all other manufacturing production processes other than chemical vapor deposition as shown in Table I-8 to this subpart.


(c) You must calculate total annual input gas i consumption on a fab basis for each fluorinated GHG and N_2_O using Equation I-11 of this subpart. Where a gas supply system serves more than one fab, Equation I-11 is applied to that gas which has been apportioned to each fab served by that system using the apportioning factors determined in accordance with § 98.94(c).


(d) You must calculate disbursements of input gas i using fab-wide gas-specific heel factors, as determined in § 98.94(b), and by using Equation I-12 of this subpart. Where a gas supply system serves more than one fab, Equation I-12 is applied to that gas which has been apportioned to each fab served by that system using the apportioning factors determined in accordance with § 98.94(c).


(e) You must calculate the amount of input gas i consumed, on a fab basis, for each process sub-type or process type j, using equation I-13 to this section. Where a gas supply system serves more than one fab, equation I-13 to this section is applied to that gas which has been apportioned to each fab served by that system using the apportioning factors determined in accordance with § 98.94(c). If you elect to calculate emissions using the stack test method in paragraph (i) of this section and to use this paragraph (e) to calculate the fraction each fluorinated input gas i exhausted from tools with abatement systems and the fraction of each by-product gas k exhausted from tools with abatement systems, you may substitute “The set of tools with abatement systems” for “Process sub-type or process type” in the definition of “j” in equation I-13 to this section.








(f) [Reserved]


(g) If you report controlled emissions pursuant to § 98.94(f), you must calculate the uptime of all the abatement systems for each combination of input gas or by-product gas, and process sub-type or process type, by using Equation I-15 of this subpart.


(h) If you use fluorinated heat transfer fluids, you must calculate the annual emissions of fluorinated heat transfer fluids on a fab basis using the mass balance approach described in Equation I-16 of this subpart.


(1) If you use a fluorinated chemical both as a fluorinated heat transfer fluid and in other applications, you may calculate and report either emissions from all applications or from only those specified in the definition of fluorinated heat transfer fluids in § 98.6.




(2) [Reserved]






(i) *Stack test method.* As an alternative to the default emission factor method in paragraph (a) of this section, you may calculate fab-level fluorinated GHG emissions using fab-specific emission factors developed from stack testing. In this case, you must comply with the stack test method specified in paragraph (i)(3) of this section.


(1)-(2) [Reserved]


(3) *Stack system stack test method.* For each stack system in the fab, measure the emissions of each fluorinated GHG from the stack system by conducting an emission test. In addition, measure the fab-specific consumption of each fluorinated GHG by the tools that are vented to the stack systems tested. Measure emissions and consumption of each fluorinated GHG as specified in § 98.94(j). Develop fab-specific emission factors and calculate fab-level fluorinated GHG emissions using the procedures specified in paragraphs (i)(3)(i) through (viii) of this section. All emissions test data and procedures used in developing emission factors must be documented and recorded according to § 98.97.


(i) You must measure the fab-specific fluorinated GHG consumption of the tools that are vented to the stack systems during the emission test as specified in § 98.94(j)(3). Calculate the consumption for each fluorinated GHG for the test period.


(ii) You must calculate the emissions of each fluorinated GHG consumed as an input gas using equation I-17 to this section and each fluorinated GHG formed as a by-product gas using equation I-18 to this section and the procedures specified in paragraphs (i)(3)(ii)(A) through (E) of this section. If a stack system is comprised of multiple stacks, you must sum the emissions from each stack in the stack system when using equation I-17 or equation I-18 to this section.


(A) If a fluorinated GHG is consumed during the sampling period, but emissions are not detected, use one-half of the field detection limit you determined for that fluorinated GHG according to § 98.94(j)(2) for the value of “X_ism_” in equation I-17 to this section.


(B) If a fluorinated GHG is consumed during the sampling period and detected intermittently during the sampling period, use the detected concentration for the value of “X_ism_” in equation I-17 to this section when available and use one-half of the field detection limit you determined for that fluorinated GHG according to § 98.94(j)(2) for the value of “X_ism_” when the fluorinated GHG is not detected.


(C) If an expected or possible by-product, as listed in table I-17 to this subpart, is detected intermittently during the sampling period, use the measured concentration for “X_ksm_” in equation I-18 to this section when available and use one-half of the field detection limit you determined for that fluorinated GHG according to § 98.94(j)(2) for the value of “X_ksm_” when the fluorinated GHG is not detected.


(D) If a fluorinated GHG is not consumed during the sampling period and is an expected by-product gas as listed in table I-17 to this subpart and is not detected during the sampling period, use one-half of the field detection limit you determined for that fluorinated GHG according to § 98.94(j)(2) for the value of “X_ksm_” in equation I-18 to this section.


(E) If a fluorinated GHG is not consumed during the sampling period and is a possible by-product gas as listed in table I-17 to this subpart, and is not detected during the sampling period, then assume zero emissions for that fluorinated GHG for the tested stack system.


(iii) You must calculate a fab-specific emission factor for each fluorinated GHG input gas consumed (in kg of fluorinated GHG emitted per kg of input gas i consumed) in the tools that vent to stack systems, as applicable, using equations I-19A and I-19B to this section or equations I-19A and I-19C to this section. Use equation I-19A to this section to calculate the controlled emissions for each carbon-containing fluorinated GHG that would result during the sampling period if the utilization rate for the input gas were equal to 0.2 (E_imax,f_). If _S__s_E_i,s_ (the total measured emissions of the fluorinated GHG across all stack systems, calculated based on the results of equation I-17 to this section) is less than or equal to E_imax,f_ calculated in equation I-19A to this section, use equation I-19B to this section to calculate the emission factor for that fluorinated GHG. If _S__s_E_i,s_ is larger than the E_imax,f_ calculated in equation I-19A to this section, use equation I-19C to this section to calculate the emission factor and treat the difference between the total measured emissions _S__s_E_i,s_ and the maximum expected controlled emissions E_imax,f_ as a by-product of the other input gases, using equation I-20 to this section. For all fluorinated GHGs that do not contain carbon, use equation I-19B to this section to calculate the emission factor for that fluorinated GHG.


(iv) You must calculate a fab-specific emission factor for each fluorinated GHG formed as a by-product (in kg of fluorinated GHG per kg of total fluorinated GHG consumed) in the tools vented to stack systems, as applicable, using equation I-20 to this section. When calculating the by-product emission factor for an input gas for which _S__s_E_i,s_ equals or exceeds E_imax,f_, exclude the consumption of that input gas from the term “_S_(Activity_if_).”


(v) You must calculate annual fab-level emissions of each fluorinated GHG consumed using equation I-21 to this section.


(vi) You must calculate annual fab-level emissions of each fluorinated GHG by-product formed using equation I-22 to this section.


(vii) When using the stack testing method described in this paragraph (i), you must calculate abatement system uptime on a fab basis using equation I-23 to this section. When calculating abatement system uptime for use in equation I-19 and I-20 to this section, you must evaluate the variables “Tdpf” and “UTpf” for the sampling period instead of the reporting year.


(viii) When using the stack testing option described in this paragraph (i) and when using more than one DRE for the same input gas i or by-product gas k, you must calculate the weighted-average fraction of each fluorinated input gas i and each fluorinated by-product gas k that has more than one DRE and that is destroyed or removed in abatement systems for each fab f, as applicable, by using equation I-24A to this section (for input gases) and equation I-24B to this section (for by-product gases) and table I-18 to this subpart. If default values are not available in table I-18 for a particular input gas, you must use a value of 10.


(ix) When using the stack testing method described in this paragraph (i), you must calculate the fraction each fluorinated input gas i exhausted in fab f from tools with abatement systems and the fraction of each by-product gas k exhausted from tools with abatement systems, as applicable, by following either the procedure set forth in paragraph (i)(3)(ix)(A) of this section or the procedure set forth in paragraph (i)(3)(ix)(B) of this section.


(A) Use equation I-24C to this section (for input gases) and equation I-24D to this section (for by-product gases) and table I-18 to this subpart. If default values are not available in table I-18 for a particular input gas, you must use a value of 10.


(B) Use paragraph (e) of this section to apportion consumption of gas i either to tools with abatement systems and tools without abatement systems or to each process type or sub-type, as applicable. If you apportion consumption of gas i to each process type or sub-type, calculate the fractions of input gas i and by-product gas k formed from gas i that are exhausted from tools with abatement systems based on the numbers of tools with and without abatement systems within each process type or sub-type.


(4) *Method to calculate emissions from fluorinated GHGs that are not tested.* Calculate emissions from consumption of each intermittent low-use fluorinated GHG as defined in § 98.98 of this subpart using the default utilization and by-product formation rates provided in table I-11, I-12, I-13, I-14, or I-15 to this subpart, as applicable, and by using equations I-8A, I-8B, I-9, and I-13 to this section. If a fluorinated GHG was not being used during the stack testing and does not meet the definition of intermittent low-use fluorinated GHG in § 98.98, then you must test the stack systems associated with the use of that fluorinated GHG at a time when that gas is in use at a magnitude that would allow you to determine an emission factor for that gas according to the procedures specified in paragraph (i)(3) of this section.


(5) [Reserved]









---

[N] [75 FR 74818, Dec. 1, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 59551, Sept. 27, 2011; 77 FR 10380, Feb. 22, 2012; 78 FR 68202, Nov. 13, 2013; 79 FR 25682, May 6, 2014; 79 FR 73783, Dec. 11, 2014; 79 FR 77391, Dec. 24, 2014; 81 FR 89253, Dec. 9, 2016; 89 FR 31907, Apr. 25, 2024]










