# § 180.430   Fenoxaprop-ethyl; tolerances for residues.

(a) *General.* Tolerances are established for residues of the herbicide fenoxaprop-ethyl, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities in the table in this paragraph. Compliance with the tolerance levels specified in this paragraph is to be determined by measuring only the sum of fenoxaprop-ethyl, (±)-ethyl 2-[4-[(6-chloro-2-benzoxazolyl)oxy]phenoxy]propanoate, and its metabolites, 2-[4-[(6-chloro-2-benzoxazolyl)oxy]phenoxy]propanoic acid and 6-chloro-2,3-dihydrobenzoxazol-2-one, calculated as the stoichiometric equivalent of fenoxaprop-ethyl, in or on the commodity.


(b) *Section 18 emergency exemptions.* Time-limited tolerances are established for residues of the herbicide fenoxaprop-ethyl, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities in the table in this paragraph in connection with use of fenoxaprop-ethyl under section 18 emergency exemptions granted by EPA. Compliance with the tolerance levels specified in this paragraph is to be determined by measuring only the sum of fenoxaprop-ethyl, (±)-ethyl 2-[4-[(6-chloro-2-benzoxazolyl)oxy]phenoxy]propanoate, and its metabolites, 2-[4-[(6-chloro-2-benzoxazolyl)oxy]phenoxy]propanoic acid and 6-chloro-2,3-dihydrobenzoxazol-2-one, calculated as the stoichiometric equivalent of fenoxaprop-ethyl, in or on the commodity. The tolerances expire and are revoked on the dates specified in the table in this paragraph.


(c) *Tolerances with regional registrations.* Tolerances with regional registration, as defined in § 180.1(l), are established for residues of the herbicide fenoxaprop-ethyl, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities in the table in this paragraph when fenoxaprop-ethyl is used in the states of Oregon, Washington, and Utah. Compliance with the tolerance levels specified in this paragraph is to be determined by measuring only the sum of fenoxaprop-ethyl, (±)-ethyl 2-[4-[(6-chloro-2-benzoxazolyl)oxy]phenoxy]propanoate, and its metabolites, 2-[4-[(6-chloro-2-benzoxazolyl)oxy]phenoxy]propanoic acid and 6-chloro-2,3-dihydrobenzoxazol-2-one, calculated as the stoichiometric equivalent of fenoxaprop-ethyl, in or on the commodity


(d) *Indirect or inadvertent residues.* [Reserved]



---

[N] [63 FR 1377, Jan. 9, 1998, as amended at 63 FR 19837, Apr. 22, 1998; 73 FR 33718, June 13, 2008; 75 FR 80346, Dec. 22, 2010; 76 FR 23495, Apr. 27, 2011; 78 FR 78748, Dec. 27, 2013; 79 FR 26164, May 7, 2014]




