# ยง 1420.3   Requirements for four-wheel ATV's

(a) Each new assembled or unassembled ATV manufactured before January 1, 2025, shall comply with all applicable provisions of the American National Standard for Four-Wheel All-Terrain Vehicles (ANSI/SVIA 1-2017), ANSI-approved on June 8, 2017. Each new assembled or unassembled ATV manufactured on or after January 1, 2025, shall comply with all applicable provisions of the American National Standard for Four-Wheel All-Terrain Vehicles ANSI-approved on March 17, 2023 (ANSI/SVIA 1-2023), with the exception of Section 4.21 Owner's Manual, as to which it shall continue to comply with the ANSI/SVIA 1-2017 standard. ANSI/SVIA 1-2017 and ANSI/SVIA 1-2023 are incorporated by reference into this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. This material is available for inspection at the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission at: Office of the Secretary, U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, 4330 East West Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814, telephone: (301) 504-7479. For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email: *fr.inspection@nara.gov,* or go to: *www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.* The material may be obtained from the Specialty Vehicle Institute of America, 2 Jenner, Suite 150, Irvine, CA 92618-3806; telephone: 949-727-3727; *www.svia.org.* In addition, a read-only copy of ANSI/SVIA 1-2023 is available for viewing on the SVIA website at *https://svia.org/ansi-svia-1-2023/.*

(b) Each ATV must be subject to an ATV action plan filed with the Commission before August 14, 2008 or subsequently filed with and approved by the Commission, and shall bear a label certifying such compliance and identifying the manufacturer, importer or private labeler and the ATV action plan to which it is subject.


(c) The ATV manufacturer or distributor shall be in compliance with all provisions of the applicable ATV action plan.



---

[N] [73 FR 67386, Nov. 14, 2008, as amended at 77 FR 12200, Feb. 29, 2012; 83 FR 8340, Feb. 27, 2018; 89 FR 4195, Jan. 23, 2024; 89 FR 5767, Jan. 30, 2024]




