# § 2634.402   Definitions.

As used in this subpart:


(a) *Director* means the Director of the Office of Government Ethics.


(b)* Employee* means an officer or employee of the executive branch of the United States.


(c) *Independent trustee* means a trustee who meets the requirements of § 2634.405 and who is approved by the Director under this subpart.


(d) *Interested party* means the President, the Vice President, an employee, a nominee or candidate as described in § 2634.201, and the spouse and any minor or dependent child of the President, Vice President, employee, or a nominee or candidate as described in § 2634.201, in any case in which the employee, spouse, or minor or dependent child has a beneficial interest in the principal or income of a trust proposed for certification under this subpart or certified under this subpart.


(e) *Qualified blind trust* means a trust in which the interested party has a beneficial interest and which:


(1) Is certified pursuant to § 2634.407 by the Director;


(2) Has a portfolio as specified in § 2634.406(a);


(3) Follows the model trust document prepared by the Office of Government Ethics; and


(4) Has an independent trustee as defined in § 2634.405.


(f) *Qualified diversified trust* means a trust in which the interested party has a beneficial interest and which:


(1) Is certified pursuant to § 2634.407 by the Director;


(2) Has a portfolio as specified in § 2634.406(b);


(3) Follows the model trust document prepared by the Office of Government Ethics; and


(4) Has an independent trustee as defined in § 2634.405.


(g) *Qualified trust* means a trust described in the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 and this part and certified by the Director under this subpart. There are two types of qualified trusts, the qualified blind trust and the qualified diversified trust.




