# § 697.8   Vessel identification.

(a) *Vessel name and official number.* Each fishing vessel issued a limited access American lobster permit and over 25 ft (7.6 m) in registered length must:


(1) Have affixed permanently its name on the port and starboard sides of the bow and, if possible, on its stern.


(2) Have its official number displayed on the port and starboard sides of the deckhouse or hull, and on an appropriate weather deck so as to be clearly visible from enforcement vessels and aircraft. The official number is the USCG documentation number or the vessel's state registration number for vessels not required to be documented under title 46 U.S.C.


(b) *Numerals.* Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, each fishing vessel issued a limited access American lobster permit must display its official number in block arabic numerals in contrasting color at least 18 inches (45.7 cm) in height for fishing vessels over 65 ft (19.8 m) in registered length, and at least 10 inches (25.4 cm) in height for all other vessels over 25 ft (7.6 m) in registered length. The registered length of a vessel, for purposes of this section, is that registered length set forth in USCG or state records.


(c) *Duties of owner.* The owner of each vessel issued a limited access American lobster permit shall ensure that—


(1) The vessel's name and official number are kept clearly legible and in good repair.


(2) No part of the vessel, its rigging, its fishing gear, or any other object obstructs the view of the official number from any enforcement vessel or aircraft.


(d) *Non-permanent marking.* Vessels over 25 ft (7.6 m) in registered length, fishing in the EEZ and carrying recreational fishing parties on a per capita basis or by charter must use markings that meet the above requirements, except for the requirement that they be affixed permanently to the vessel. The non-permanent markings must be displayed in conformity with the aforementioned requirements.




