# § 660.413   Overfished species rebuilding plans.

For each overfished salmon stock with an approved rebuilding plan, annual management measures will be established using the standards in this section, specifically the target date for rebuilding the stock to its maximum sustainable yield (MSY) level (generally expressed as S_MSY_) and the harvest control rule to be used to rebuild the stock.


(a) *Klamath River Fall-run Chinook Salmon (KRFC).* KRFC was declared overfished in 2018. The target year for rebuilding the KRFC stock is 2020. The harvest control rule during the rebuilding period for the KRFC stock is the *de minimis* control rule specified in the FMP and at § 660.410(c), which allows for limited fishing impacts when abundance falls below S_MSY._ The control rule describes maximum allowable exploitation rates at any given level of abundance. The control rule is presented in Figure 1 of subpart H of this part.


(1) The KRFC control rule uses reference points F_ABC_ MSST, S_MSY_, and two levels of *de minimis* exploitation rates, F = 0.10 and F = 0.25. The maximum allowable exploitation rate, F, in a given year, depends on the pre-fishery ocean abundance in spawner equivalent units, N. At high abundance, the control rule caps the exploitation rate at F_ABC;_ at moderate abundance, the control rule specifies an F that results in S_MSY_ spawners; and at low abundance (*i.e.* when expected escapement is below S_MSY_), the control rule allows for *de minimis* exploitation rates with the abundance breakpoints defined as: A = MSST/2; B = (MSST + S_MSY_)/2; C = S_MSY_/(1—0.25); D = S_MSY_/(1—F_ABC_), as shown in Figure 1 of subpart H of this part. For N between 0 and A, F increases linearly from 0 at N = 0, to 0.10 at N = A. For N between A and MSST, F is equal to 0.10. For N between MSST and B, F increases linearly from 0.10 at N = MSST, to 0.25 at N = B. For N between B and C, F is equal to 0.25. For N between C and D, F is the value that results in S_MSY_ spawners. For N greater than D, F is equal to F_ABC._

(2) [Reserved]


(b) [Reserved]


(c) *Juan de Fuca coho.* The Juan de Fuca coho salmon stock was declared overfished in 2018. The target year for rebuilding Juan de Fuca coho is 2023. The harvest control rule during the rebuilding period for Juan de Fuca coho is the abundance-based stepped harvest rate as shown in table 1 to this paragraph (c).


(d) *Queets coho.* The Queets coho salmon stock was declared overfished in 2018. The target year for rebuilding Queets coho is 2019. The harvest control rule during the rebuilding period for Queets coho is the abundance-based stepped harvest rate as shown in table 2 to this paragraph (d).



---

[N] [85 FR 75921, Nov. 27, 2020, as amended at 86 FR 9302, Feb. 12, 2021; 87 FR 25430, Apr. 29, 2022; 89 FR 35013, May 1, 2024]







