# ยง 36.4221   Delegation of authority.

(a) Except as hereinafter provided, each employee of the Department of Veterans Affairs heretofore or hereafter appointed to, or lawfully filling, any position designated in paragraph (b) of this section is hereby delegated authority, within the limitations and conditions prescribed by law, to exercise the powers and functions of the Secretary with respect to the guaranty of manufactured home loans and the rights and liabilities arising therefrom, including but not limited to the adjudication and allowance, disallowance, and compromise of claims; the collection or compromise of amounts due, in money or other property; the extension, rearrangement, or acquisition of loans; the management and disposition of secured and unsecured notes and other property; and those functions expressly or impliedly embraced within paragraphs (2) to (6), inclusive, of 38 U.S.C. 3720(a). Incidental to the exercise and performance of the powers and functions hereby delegated, each such employee is authorized to execute and deliver (with or without acknowledgment) for, and on behalf of, the Secretary, evidence of guaranty and such certificates, forms, conveyances, and other instruments as may be appropriate in connection with the acquisition, ownership, management, sale, transfer, assignment, encumbrance, rental, or other disposition of real or personal property, or of any right, title, or interest therein, including, but not limited to, contracts of sale, installment contracts, deeds, leases, bills of sale, assignments, and releases; and to approve disbursements to be made for any purpose authorized by 38 U.S.C. chapter 37. 


(b) Designated positions:


(c) Nothing in this section shall be construed (1) to authorize any such employee to exercise the authority vested in the Secretary under 38 U.S.C. 501 or 3715(b) or to sue, or enter appearance for and on behalf of the Secretary, or confess judgment against the Secretary in any court without prior authorization; or (2) to include the authority to exercise those powers delegated to the Under Secretary for Benefits, or the Executive Director, Loan Guaranty Service, under ยง 36.4220: *Provided,* That anything in the regulations concerning guaranty of loans to veterans to the contrary notwithstanding, any evidence of guaranty issued on or after January 27, 1971 by any of the employees designated in paragraph (b) of this section or by any employee designated an authorized agent or a loan guaranty agent shall be deemed to have been issued by the Secretary, subject to the defenses reserved in 38 U.S.C. 3721. 


(d) Each Regional Office, regional office and insurance center, and Medical and Regional Office Center shall maintain and keep current a cumulative list of all employees of that Office or Center who, since May 1, 1980, have occupied the positions of Director or Executive Director, Loan Guaranty Officer and Assistant Loan Guaranty Officer. This list will include each employee's name, title, date the employee assumed the position, and the termination date, if applicable, of the employee's tenure in such position. The list shall be available for public inspection and copying at the Regional Office, or Center, during normal business hours.



---

[N] [36 FR 1253, Jan. 27, 1971, as amended at 40 FR 13214, Mar. 25, 1975; 44 FR 16014, Mar. 16, 1979; 45 FR 21243, Apr. 1, 1980; 46 FR 43671, Aug. 31, 1981; 49 FR 13352, Apr. 4, 1984; 61 FR 28058, June 4, 1996; 86 FR 51275, Sept. 15, 2021] 




