# ยง 201.86   Brand inspection: Application for authorization, registration and filing of schedules, reciprocal arrangements, and maintenance of identity of consignments.

(a) *Application for authorization.* Any department or agency or duly-organized livestock association of any State in which branding or marking of livestock as a means of establishing ownership prevails by custom or statute, which desires to obtain an authorization to charge and collect a fee for the inspection of brands, marks, and other identifying characteristics of livestock, as provided in section 317 of the Act, shall file with the Administrator an application in writing for such authorization. In case two or more applications for authorization to collect a fee for the inspection of brands, marks, and other identifying characteristics of livestock are received from the same State, a hearing will be held to determine which applicant is best qualified.


(b) *Registration and filing of schedules.* Upon the issuance of an authorization to an agency or an association, said agency or association shall register as a market agency in accordance with the provisions of ยง 201.10, except that no bond need be filed or maintained, and shall file a schedule of its rates and charges for performing the service in the manner and form prescribed by ยง 201.17.


(c) *Reciprocal arrangements.* Any authorized agency or association may make arrangements with an association or associations in the same or in another State, where branding or marking livestock prevails by custom or statute, to perform inspection service at stockyards on such terms and conditions as may be approved by the Administrator: *Provided,* That such arrangements will tend to further the purpose of the Act and will not result in duplication of charges or services.


(d) *Maintenance of identity of consignments.* All persons having custody at the stockyard of livestock subject to inspection shall preserve the identity of the consignment until inspection has been completed by the authorized inspection agency. Agencies authorized to conduct such inspection shall perform the work as soon after receipt of the livestock as practicable and as rapidly as is reasonably possible in order to prevent delay in marketing, shrinkage in weight, or other avoidable losses.



---

[N] [49 FR 33005, Aug. 20, 1984, as amended at 68 FR 75388, Dec. 31, 2003]




