# ยง 1091.203   Response.

(a) *Timing and word limit.* Within 30 days of service of a Notice, a respondent shall file any response with the Director and serve it on the initiating official, according to the instructions set forth in the Notice. The response is subject to the word limit in ยง 1091.403.


(b) *Content of the response.* (1) If the respondent disputes that it is a nonbank covered person that is engaging, or has engaged, in conduct that poses risks to consumers with regard to the offering or provision of consumer financial products or services, the response shall set forth the basis for the respondent's position.


(2) The response shall be accompanied by appendices that include (and are limited to) all documents, records, or other evidence a respondent wishes to use to support the arguments or assertions set forth in the response.


(3) If the respondent wishes to present a supplemental oral response, the response must include that request. The respondent may also include, for the Director's consideration, the respondent's preference for the supplemental oral response to be by telephone, by video conference, or in person at the Bureau's headquarters in Washington, DC. A respondent's failure to request to present a supplemental oral response shall constitute a waiver of the opportunity to present a supplemental oral response.


(4) The response shall include an email address for serving documents on the respondent, which may be its attorney's email address.


(5) The response shall be accompanied, as an appendix, by an affidavit or declaration, made by the individual respondent if a natural person, or, if a corporate or other entity that is not a natural person, by an officer, managing or general member, or partner authorized to represent the respondent, affirming that the response is true and accurate and does not contain any omissions that would cause the response to be materially misleading.


(c) *Default.* If a respondent does not file a response within the time period set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, it shall constitute a waiver of the respondent's right to respond. At the initiating official's request, the Director may issue a decision and order as provided in ยง 1091.206(a)(1)).


(d) *No Discovery.* There shall be no discovery in connection with a response.






