# 204.2103   Procedures.

(a) *Representations.*

(1)(i) If the offeror selects “does not” in response to the provision at DFARS 252.204-7016, the contracting officer may rely on the representation, unless the contracting officer has an independent reason to question the representation. If the contracting officer has a reason to question the “does not” representation in FAR 52.204-26, FAR 52.212-3(v), or 252.204-7016, then the contracting officer shall consult with the requiring activity and legal counsel.


(ii) If the offeror selects “does” in paragraph (c) of the provision at DFARS 252.204-7016, the offeror must complete the representation at DFARS 252.204-7017.


(2)(i) If the offeror selects “will not” in paragraph (d) of the provision at DFARS 252.204-7017, the contracting officer may rely on the representation, unless the contracting officer has an independent reason to question the representation. If the contracting officer has a reason to question the “will not” representation in FAR 52.204-24 or DFARS 252.204-7017, then the contracting officer shall consult with the requiring activity and legal counsel.


(ii) If an offeror selects “will” in paragraph (d) of the provision at DFARS 252.204-7017, the offeror must provide the information required by paragraph (e) of the provision. When an offeror completes paragraph (e) of either of the provisions at FAR 52.204-24 or DFARS 252.204-7017, the contracting officer shall—


(A) Forward the offeror's representation and disclosure information to the requiring activity; and


(B) Not award to the offeror unless the requiring activity advises—


(*1*) For equipment, systems, or services that use covered telecommunications equipment or services as a substantial or essential component of any system, or as critical technology as part of any system, that a waiver as described at FAR 4.2104 has been granted; or


(*2*) For equipment, systems, or services to be used to carry out covered missions that use covered defense telecommunications equipment or services as a substantial or essential component of any system, or as critical technology as part of any system, that a waiver as described at DFARS 204.2104 has been granted.


(b) *Reporting.* If a contractor reports information to *https://dibnet.dod.mil* in accordance with the clause at FAR 52.204-25 or DFARS 252.204-7018, the Defense Cyber Crime Center will notify the contracting officer, who will consult with the requiring activity on how to proceed with the contract.




