# § 20.11   What terms do I need to understand?

For the purpose of this part, the following terms shall be construed, respectively, to mean and to include:


(a) *Migratory game birds* means those migratory birds included in the terms of conventions between the United States and any foreign country for the protection of migratory birds, for which open seasons are prescribed in this part and belong to the following families:


(1) Anatidae (ducks, geese [including brant] and swans);


(2) Columbidae (doves and pigeons);


(3) Gruidae (cranes);


(4) Rallidae (rails, coots and gallinules); and


(5) Scolopacidae (woodcock and snipe).


A list of migratory birds protected by the international conventions and the Migratory Bird Treaty Act appears in § 10.13 of this subchapter.


(b) *Seasons*—(1) *Open season* means the days on which migratory game birds may lawfully be taken. Each period precribed as an open season shall be construed to include the first and last days thereof.


(2) *Closed season* means the days on which migratory game birds shall not be taken.


(c) *Bag limits*—(1) *Aggregate bag limit* means a condition of taking in which two or more usually similar species may be bagged (reduced to possession) by the hunter in predetermined or unpredetermined quantities to satisfy a maximum take limit.


(2) *Daily bag limit* means the maximum number of migratory game birds of single species or combination (aggregate) of species permitted to be taken by one person in any one day during the open season in any one specified geographic area for which a daily bag limit is prescribed.


(3) *Aggregate daily bag limit* means the maximum number of migratory game birds permitted to be taken by one person in any one day during the open season when such person hunts in more than one specified geographic area and/or for more than one species for which a combined daily bag limit is prescribed. The aggregate daily bag limit is equal to, but shall not exceed, the largest daily bag limit prescribed for any one species or for any one specified geographic area in which taking occurs.


(4) *Possession limit* means the maximum number of migratory game birds of a single species or a combination of species permitted to be possessed by any one person when lawfully taken in the United States in any one specified geographic area for which a possession limit is prescribed.


(5) *Aggregate possession limit* means the maximum number of migratory game birds of a single species or combination of species taken in the United States permitted to be possessed by any one person when taking and possession occurs in more than one specified geographic area for which a possession limit is prescribed. The aggegate possession limit is equal to, but shall not exceed, the largest possession limit prescribed for any one of the species or specified geographic areas in which taking and possession occurs.


(d) *Personal abode* means one's principal or ordinary home or dwelling place, as distinguished from one's temporary or transient place of abode or dwelling such as a hunting club, or any club house, cabin, tent or trailer house used as a hunting club, or any hotel, motel or rooming house used during a hunting, pleasure or business trip.


(e) *Migratory bird preservation facility* means:


(1) Any person who, at their residence or place of business and for hire or other consideration; or


(2) Any taxidermist, cold-storage facility or locker plant which, for hire or other consideration; or


(3) Any hunting club which, in the normal course of operations; receives, possesses, or has in custody any migratory game birds belonging to another person for purposes of picking, cleaning, freezing, processing, storage or shipment.


(f) *Paraplegic* means an individual afflicted with paralysis of the lower half of the body with involvement of both legs, usually due to disease of or injury to the spinal cord.


(g) *Normal agricultural planting, harvesting, or post-harvest manipulation* means a planting or harvesting undertaken for the purpose of producing and gathering a crop, or manipulation after such harvest and removal of grain, that is conducted in accordance with official recommendations of State Extension Specialists of the Cooperative Extension Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.


(h) *Normal agricultural operation* means a normal agricultural planting, harvesting, post-harvest manipulation, or agricultural practice, that is conducted in accordance with official recommendations of State Extension Specialists of the Cooperative Extension Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.


(i) *Normal soil stabilization practice* means a planting for agricultural soil erosion control or post-mining land reclamation conducted in accordance with official recommendations of State Extension Specialists of the Cooperative Extension Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture for agricultural soil erosion control.


(j) *Baited area* means any area on which salt, grain, or other feed has been placed, exposed, deposited, distributed, or scattered, if that salt, grain, or other feed could serve as a lure or attraction for migratory game birds to, on, or over areas where hunters are attempting to take them. Any such area will remain a baited area for ten days following the complete removal of all such salt, grain, or other feed.


(k) *Baiting* means the direct or indirect placing, exposing, depositing, distributing, or scattering of salt, grain, or other feed that could serve as a lure or attraction for migratory game birds to, on, or over any areas where hunters are attempting to take them.


(l) *Manipulation* means the alteration of natural vegetation or agricultural crops by activities that include but are not limited to mowing, shredding, discing, rolling, chopping, trampling, flattening, burning, or herbicide treatments. The term *manipulation* does not include the distributing or scattering of grain, seed, or other feed after removal from or storage on the field where grown.


(m) *Rice ratooning* means the agricultural practice of harvesting rice by cutting the majority of the aboveground portion of the rice plant but leaving the roots and growing shoot apices intact to allow the plant to recover and produce a second crop yield.


(n) *Post-disaster flooding* means the destruction of a crop through flooding in accordance with practices required by the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation for agricultural producers to obtain crop insurance under the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1501 *et seq.*) on land on which a crop was not harvestable due to a natural disaster (including any hurricane, storm, tornado, flood, high water, wind-driven water, tidal wave, tsunami, earthquake, volcanic eruption, landslide, mudslide, drought, fire, snowstorm, or other catastrophe that is declared a major disaster by the President in accordance with section 401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170)) in the crop year—


(1) In which the natural disaster occurred; or


(2) Immediately preceding the crop year in which the natural disaster occurred.


(o) *Natural vegetation* means any non-agricultural, native, or naturalized plant species that grows at a site in response to planting or from existing seeds or other propagules. The term *natural vegetation* does not include planted millet. However, planted millet that grows on its own in subsequent years after the year of planting is considered *natural vegetation.*

(p) *Resident Canada geese* means Canada geese that nest within the lower 48 States and the District of Columbia or that reside within the lower 48 States and the District of Columbia in the months of April, May, June, July, or August.



---

[N] [53 FR 24290, June 28, 1988, as amended at 64 FR 29804, June 3, 1999; 71 FR 45986, Aug. 10, 2006; 72 FR 46407, Aug. 20, 2007; 84 FR 28773, June 20, 2019; 84 FR 38885, Aug. 8, 2019]




