# § 1001.2   Definitions.

For purposes of this part:


*Agent* means any person who has express or implied authority to obligate or act on behalf of an entity.


*Controlled substance* means a drug or other substance, or immediate precursor: 


(a) Included in schedules I, II, III, IV or V of part B of subchapter I in 21 U.S.C. chapter 13, or 


(b) That is deemed a controlled substance by the law of any State. 


*Convicted* means that—


(a) A judgment of conviction has been entered against an individual or entity by a Federal, State or local court, regardless of whether: 


(1) There is a post-trial motion or an appeal pending, or 


(2) The judgment of conviction or other record relating to the criminal conduct has been expunged or otherwise removed; 


(b) A Federal, State or local court has made a finding of guilt against an individual or entity; 


(c) A Federal, State or local court has accepted a plea of guilty or *nolo contendere* by an individual or entity; or 


(d) An individual or entity has entered into participation in a first offender, deferred adjudication or other program or arrangement where judgment of conviction has been withheld. 


*HHS* means Department of Health and Human Services. 


*Immediate family member* means a person's husband or wife; natural or adoptive parent; child or sibling; stepparent, stepchild, stepbrother, or stepsister; father-, mother-, daughter-, son-, brother- or sister-in-law; grandparent or grandchild; or spouse of a grandparent or grandchild.


*Incarceration* means imprisonment or any type of confinement with or without supervised release, including, but not limited to, community confinement, house arrest and home detention.


*Indirect ownership interest* includes an ownership interest through any other entities that ultimately have an ownership interest in the entity in issue. (For example, an individual has a 10-percent ownership interest in the entity at issue if he or she has a 20-percent ownership interest in a corporation that wholly owns a subsidiary that is a 50-percent owner of the entity in issue.)


*Managing employee* means an individual (including a general manager, business manager, administrator, or director) who exercises operational or managerial control over the entity or part thereof or directly or indirectly conducts the day-to-day operations of the entity or part thereof.


*Member of household* means, with respect to a person, any individual with whom the person is sharing a common abode as part of a single-family unit, including domestic employees and others who live together as a family unit. A roomer or boarder is not considered a member of household.


*Ownership interest* means an interest in:


(1) The capital, the stock, or the profits of the entity, or


(2) Any mortgage, deed, trust or note, or other obligation secured in whole or in part by the property or assets of the entity.


*Ownership or control interest* means, with respect to an entity, a person who


(1) Has a direct or an indirect ownership interest (or any combination thereof) of 5 percent or more in the entity;


(2) Is the owner of a whole or part interest in any mortgage, deed of trust, note, or other obligation secured (in whole or in part) by the entity or any of the property assets thereof, if such interest is equal to or exceeds 5 percent of the total property and assets of the entity;


(3) Is an officer or a director of the entity;


(4) Is a partner in the entity if the entity is organized as a partnership;


(5) Is an agent of the entity; or


(6) Is a managing employee of the entity.


*Patient* means any individual who is receiving health care items or services, including any item or service provided to meet his or her physical, mental or emotional needs or well-being (including a resident receiving care in a facility as described in part 483 of this chapter), whether or not reimbursed under Medicare, Medicaid and any other Federal health care program and regardless of the location in which such item or service is provided.


*Professionally recognized standards of health care* are Statewide or national standards of care, whether in writing or not, that professional peers of the individual or entity whose provision of care is an issue, recognize as applying to those peers practicing or providing care within a State. When the Department has declared a treatment modality not to be safe and effective, practitioners who employ such a treatment modality will be deemed not to meet professionally recognized standards of health care. This definition will not be construed to mean that all other treatments meet professionally recognized standards.


*Sole community physician* means a physician who is the only physician who provides primary care services to Federal or State health care program beneficiaries within a defined service area.


*Sole source of essential specialized services in the community* means that an individual or entity—


(1) Is the only practitioner, supplier or provider furnishing specialized services in an area designated by the Health Resources Services Administration as a health professional shortage area for that medical specialty, as listed in 42 part 5, appendices B-F;


(2) Is a sole community hospital, as defined in § 412.92 of this title; or


(3) Is the only source of specialized services in a reasonably defined service area where services by a non-specialist could not be substituted for the source without jeopardizing the health or safety of beneficiaries.


*State Medicaid Fraud Control Unit* means a unit certified by the Secretary as meeting the criteria of 42 U.S.C. 1396b(q) and § 1002.305 of this chapter. 



---

[N] [57 FR 3330, Jan. 29, 1992, as amended at 63 FR 46686, Sept. 2, 1998; 64 FR 39426, July 22, 1999; 82 FR 4111, Jan. 12, 2017]




