# § 1.665(a)-1A   Undistributed net income.

(a) *Domestic trusts.* The term *undistributed net income,* in the case of a trust (other than a foreign trust created by a U.S. person) means, for any taxable year beginning after December 31, 1968, the distributable net income of the trust for that year (as determined under section 643(a)), less: 


(1) The amount of income required to be distributed currently and any other amounts properly paid or credited or required to be distributed to beneficiaries in the taxable year as specified in section 661(a), and 


(2) The amount of taxes imposed on the trust attributable to such distributable net income, as defined in § 1.665 (d)-1A. The application of the rule in this paragraph to a taxable year of a trust in which income is accumulated may be illustrated by the following example: 


(b) *Foreign trusts.* The undistributed net income of a foreign trust created by a U.S. person for any taxable year is the distributable net income of such trust (see § 1.643(a)-6 and the examples set forth in paragraph (b) thereof), less: 


(1) The amount of income required to be distributed currently and any other amounts properly paid or credited or required to be distributed to beneficiaries in the taxable year as specified in section 661(a), and 


(2) The amount of taxes imposed on such trust by chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code, which are attributable to items of income which are required to be included in such distributable net income. 


(c) *Effect of prior distributions.* The undistributed net income for any year to which an accumulation distribution for a later year may be thrown back will be reduced by accumulation distributions in intervening years that are required to be thrown back to such year. For example, if a trust has undistributed net income for 1975, and an accumulation distribution is made in 1980, there must be taken into account the effect on undistributed net income for 1975 of any accumulation distribution made in 1976, 1977, 1978, or 1979. However, undistributed net income for any year will not be reduced by any distributions in any intervening years that are excluded under section 663(a)(1), relating to gifts, bequests, etc. See paragraph (d) of § 1.666(a)-1A for an illustration of the reduction of undistributed net income for any year by a subsequent accumulation distribution. 


(d) *Distributions made in taxable years beginning before January 1, 1974.* For special rules relating to accumulation distributions of undistributed net income made in taxable years of the trust beginning before January 1, 1974, see § 1.665(b)-2A. 



---

[N] [T.D. 7204, 37 FR 17136, Aug. 25, 1972]




