# § 1.1502-9   Consolidated overall foreign losses, separate limitation losses, and overall domestic losses.

(a) *In general.* This section provides rules for applying section 904(f) and (g) (including its definitions and nomenclature) to a group and its members. Generally, section 904(f) concerns rules relating to overall foreign losses (OFLs) and separate limitation losses (SLLs) and the consequences of such losses. Under section 904(f)(5), losses are computed separately in each category of income described in section 904(d)(1) or § 1.904-5(a)(4)(v) (separate category). Section 904(g) concerns rules relating to overall domestic losses (ODLs) and the consequences of such losses. Paragraph (b) of this section defines terms and provides computational and accounting rules, including rules regarding recapture. Paragraph (c) of this section provides rules that apply to OFLs, SLLs, and ODLs when a member becomes or ceases to be a member of a group. Paragraph (d) of this section provides a predecessor and successor rule. Paragraph (e) of this section provides effective dates.


(b) *Consolidated application of section 904(f) and (g).* A group applies section 904(f) and (g) for a consolidated return year in accordance with that section, subject to the following rules:


(1) *Computation of CSLI or CSLL and consolidated U.S.-source taxable income or CDL.* The group computes its consolidated separate limitation income (CSLI) or consolidated separate limitation loss (CSLL) for each separate category under the principles of § 1.1502-11 by aggregating each member's foreign-source taxable income or loss in such separate category computed under the principles of § 1.1502-12, and taking into account the foreign portion of the consolidated items described in § 1.1502-11(a)(2) through (a)(6) for such separate category. The group computes its consolidated U.S.-source taxable income or consolidated domestic loss (CDL) under similar principles.


(2) *Netting CSLLs, CSLIs, and consolidated U.S.-source taxable income.* The group applies section 904(f)(5) to determine the extent to which a CSLL for a separate category reduces CSLI for another separate category or consolidated U.S.-source taxable income.


(3) *Netting CDL and CSLI.* The group applies section 904(g)(2) to determine the extent to which a CDL reduces CSLI.


(4) *CSLL, COFL, and CODL accounts.* To the extent provided in section 904(f), the amount by which a CSLL for a separate category (the loss category) reduces CSLI for another separate category (the income category) will result in the creation of (or addition to) a CSLL account for the loss category with respect to the income category. Likewise, the amount by which a CSLL for a loss category reduces consolidated U.S.-source taxable income will create (or add to) a consolidated overall foreign loss account (a COFL account). To the extent provided in section 904(g), the amount by which a CDL reduces CSLI will result in the creation of (or addition to) a consolidated overall domestic loss (CODL) account for the income category reduced by the CDL.


(5) *Recapture of COFL, CSLL, and CODL accounts.* In the case of a COFL account for a loss category, section 904(f)(1) and section 904(f)(3) recharacterize some or all of the foreign-source income in the loss category as U.S.-source income. In the case of a CSLL account for a loss category with respect to an income category, section 904(f)(5)(C) and section 904(f)(5)(F) recharacterize some or all of the foreign-source income in the loss category as foreign-source income in the income category. In the case of a CODL account, section 904(g)(3) recharacterizes some of the U.S.-source income as foreign-source income in the separate category that was offset by the CDL. The COFL account, CSLL account, or CODL account is reduced to the extent income is recharacterized with respect to such account.


(6) *Intercompany transactions*—(i) *Nonapplication of section 904(f) disposition rules.* Neither section 904(f)(3) (in the case of a COFL account) nor section 904(f)(5)(F) (in the case of a CSLL account) applies at the time of a disposition that is an intercompany transaction to which § 1.1502-13 applies. Instead, section 904(f)(3) and section 904(f)(5)(F) apply only at such time and only to the extent that the group is required under § 1.1502-13 (without regard to section 904(f)(3) and section 904(f)(5)(F)) to take into account any intercompany items resulting from the disposition, based on the COFL or CSLL account existing at the end of the consolidated return year during which the group takes the intercompany items into account.


(ii) *Examples.* Paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section is illustrated by the following examples. The identity of the parties and the basic assumptions set forth in § 1.1502-13(c)(7)(i) apply to the examples. Except as otherwise stated, assume further that the consolidated group recognizes no foreign source income other than as a result of the transactions described. The examples are as follows:


(c) *Becoming or ceasing to be a member of a group*—(1) *Adding separate accounts on becoming a member.* At the time that a corporation becomes a member of a group (a new member), the group adds to the balance of its COFL, CSLL or CODL account the balance of the new member's corresponding OFL account, SLL account or ODL account. A new member's OFL account corresponds to a COFL account if the account is for the same loss category. A new member's SLL account corresponds to a CSLL account if the account is for the same loss category and with respect to the same income category. A new member's ODL account corresponds to a CODL account if the account is with respect to the same income category. If the group does not have a COFL, CSLL or CODL account corresponding to the new member's account, it creates a COFL, CSLL or CODL account with a balance equal to the balance of the member's account.


(2) *Apportionment of consolidated account to departing member*—(i) *In general.* A group apportions to a member that ceases to be a member (a departing member) a portion of each COFL, CSLL and CODL account as of the end of the year during which the member ceases to be a member and after the group makes the additions or reductions to such account required under paragraphs (b)(4), (b)(5), and (c)(1) of this section (other than an addition under paragraph (c)(1) of this section attributable to a member becoming a member after the departing member ceases to be a member). The group computes such portion under paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, as limited by paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section. The departing member carries such portion to its first separate return year after it ceases to be a member. Also, the group reduces each account by such portion and carries such reduced amount to its first consolidated return year beginning after the year in which the member ceases to be a member. If two or more members cease to be members in the same year, the group computes the portion allocable to each such member (and reduces its accounts by such portion) in the order that the members cease to be members.


(ii) *Departing member's portion of group's account.* A departing member's portion of a group's COFL, CSLL or CODL account for a loss category is computed based upon the member's share of the group's assets that generate income subject to recapture at the time that the member ceases to be a member. Under the characterization principles of §§ 1.861-9T(g)(3), 1.861-12, and 1.861-13, the group identifies the assets of the departing member and the remaining members that generate U.S.-source income (domestic assets) and foreign-source income (foreign assets) in each separate category. The assets are characterized based upon the income that the assets are reasonably expected to generate after the member ceases to be a member. The member's portion of a group's COFL or CSLL account for a loss category is the group's COFL or CSLL account, respectively, multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the value of the member's foreign assets for the loss category and the denominator of which is the value of the foreign assets of the group (including the departing member) for the loss category. The member's portion of a group's CODL account for each income category is the group's CODL account multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the value of the member's domestic assets and the denominator of which is the value of the domestic assets of the group (including the departing member). The value of the domestic and foreign assets is determined under the asset valuation rules of § 1.861-9(g)(1) and (2) using either tax book value or alternative tax book value under the method chosen by the group for purposes of interest apportionment as provided in § 1.861-9(g)(1)(ii). For purposes of this paragraph (c)(2)(ii), § 1.861-9T(g)(2)(iv) (assets in intercompany transactions) applies, but § 1.861-9T(g)(2)(iii) (adjustments for directly allocated interest) does not apply. The member's portions of COFL, CSLL, and CODL accounts are limited by paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section. In addition, for purposes of this paragraph (c)(2)(ii), the tax book value of assets transferred in intercompany transactions is determined without regard to previously deferred gain or loss that is taken into account by the group as a result of the transaction in which the member ceases to be a member. The assets should be valued at the time the member ceases to be a member, but values on other dates may be used unless this creates substantial distortions. For example, if a member ceases to be a member in the middle of the group's consolidated return year, an average of the values of assets at the beginning and end of the year (as provided in § 1.861-9(g)(2)) may be used or, if a member ceases to be a member in the early part of the group's consolidated return year, values at the beginning of the year may be used, unless this creates substantial distortions.


(iii) *Limitation on member's portion.* If the aggregate of a member's portions of COFL and CSLL accounts for a loss category (with respect to one or more income categories) determined under paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section exceeds 150 percent of the actual fair market value of the member's foreign assets in the loss category, the member's portion of the COFL or CSLL accounts for the loss category is reduced (proportionately, in the case of multiple accounts) by such excess. In addition, if the aggregate of a member's portions of CODL accounts (with respect to one or more income categories) determined under paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section exceeds 150 percent of the actual fair market value of the member's domestic assets, the member's portion of the CODL accounts is reduced (proportionately, in the case of multiple accounts) by such excess. This rule does not apply in the case of COFL or CSLL accounts if the departing member and all other members that cease to be members as part of the same transaction own all (or substantially all) the foreign assets in the loss category. In the case of CODL accounts, this rule does not apply if the departing member and all other members that cease to be members as part of the same transaction own all (or substantially all) the domestic assets.




(iv) *Determination of values of domestic and foreign assets binding on departing member.* The group's determination of the value of the member's and the group's domestic and foreign assets for a loss category is binding on the member, unless the Commissioner concludes that the determination is not appropriate. The common parent of the group must attach a statement to the return for the taxable year that the departing member ceases to be a member of the group that sets forth the name and taxpayer identification number of the departing member, the amount of each COFL and CSLL for each loss category and each CODL that is apportioned to the departing member under this paragraph (c)(2), the method used to determine the value of the member's and the group's domestic and foreign assets in each such loss category, and the value of the member's and the group's domestic and foreign assets in each such loss category. The common parent must also furnish a copy of the statement to the departing member.


(v) *Anti-abuse rule.* If a corporation becomes a member and ceases to be a member, and a principal purpose of the corporation becoming and ceasing to be a member is to transfer the corporation's OFL account, SLL account or ODL account to the group or to transfer the group's COFL, CSLL or CODL account to the corporation, appropriate adjustments will be made to eliminate the benefit of such a transfer of accounts. Similarly, if any member acquires assets or disposes of assets (including a transfer of assets between members of the group and the departing member) with a principal purpose of affecting the apportionment of accounts under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, appropriate adjustments will be made to eliminate the benefit of such acquisition or disposition.


(vi) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the rules of this paragraph (c):


(d) *Predecessor and successor.* A reference to a member includes, as the context may require, a reference to a predecessor or successor of the member. See § 1.1502-1(f).


(e) *Effective/applicability date.* This section applies to consolidated return years beginning on or after January 1, 2012, for which the return is due (without extensions) after June 22, 2012. Taxpayers may choose to apply the provisions of this section to other consolidated return years beginning after December 31, 2006, including periods covered by 26 CFR 1.1502-9T (revised as of April 1, 2010). For rules relating to overall foreign losses and separate limitation losses in consolidated return years beginning on or before December 21, 2007, see 26 CFR 1.1502-9 (revised as of April 1, 2007).



---

[N] [T.D. 9595, 77 FR 37585, June 22, 2012, as amended by T.D. 10018, 89 FR 106854, Dec. 30, 2024]




