# § 273.12   Definitions.

Unless otherwise noted, these terms and their definitions are for the purpose of this subpart:


*Abandonment and destruction (A/D).* A method for handling property that:


(1) Is abandoned and a diligent effort to determine the owner is unsuccessful.


(2) Is uneconomical to repair or the estimated costs of the continued care and handling of the property exceeds the estimated proceeds of sale.


(3) Has an estimated cost of disposal by A/D that is less than the net sales cost.


*Accountability.* The obligation imposed by law, lawful order, or regulation accepted by a person for keeping accurate records to ensure control of property, documents, or funds with or without possession of the property. The person who is accountable is concerned with control, while the person who has possession is responsible for custody, care, and safekeeping.


*Accountable officer.* The individual responsible for acquiring and maintaining DoD items of supply (physical property and records), approving property orders (including reutilization of excess property requests), and authenticating materiel release orders (MROs). Comparative terms are: Army Supply Support Accountable Officer, Navy Accountable Officer, Air Force Accountable Officer/Chief of Supply Materiel Support Division, Marine Corps Unit Supply Officer.


*Acquisition cost.* The amount paid for property, including transportation costs, net any trade and cash discounts. Also see standard price.


*Ammunition.* Generic term related mainly to articles of military application consisting of all kinds of bombs, grenades, rockets, mines, projectiles, and other similar devices or contrivances.


*Batchlot.* The physical grouping of individual receipts of low-dollar-value property. The physical grouping consolidates multiple disposal turn-in documents (DTIDs) under a single cover DTID. The objective of batchlotting is to reduce the time and costs related to physical handling and administrative processes required for receiving items individually. The cover DTID establishes accountability in the accountable record, and individual line items lose their identity.


*Bid.* A response to an offer to sell, that, if accepted, would bind the bidder to the terms and conditions of the contract (including the bid price).


*Bidder.* Any entity that is responding to or has responded to an offer to sell.


*Commerce control list (CCL) items (formerly known as strategic list item).* Commodities, software, and technology subject to export controls in accordance with Export Administration Regulations (EAR) in 15 CFR parts 730 through 774. The EAR contains the CCL and is administered by the Bureau of Industry and Security, DOC.


*Component.* An item that is useful only when used in conjunction with an end item. Components are also commonly referred to as assemblies. For purposes of this definition an assembly and a component are the same. There are two types of “components: Major components and minor components. A major component includes any assembled element which forms a portion of an end item without which the end item is inoperable. For example, for an automobile, components will include the engine, transmission, and battery. If you do not have all those items, the automobile will not function, or function as effectively. A minor component includes any assembled element of a major component. Components” consist of parts. References in the CCL to components include both major components and minor components.


*Continental United States (CONUS).* Territory, including the adjacent territorial waters, located within the North American continent between Canada and Mexico (comprises 48 States and the District of Columbia).


*Contractor inventory.* (1) Any property acquired by and in the possession of a contractor or subcontractor (including Government-furnished property) under a contract, terms of which vest title in the U.S. Government (USG) and in excess of the amounts needed to complete full performance under the entire contract.


(2) Any property for which the USG is obligated to or has an option to take over under any type of contract resulting from changes in the specifications or plans or termination of such contract (or subcontract) before completion of the work, for the convenience of or at the option of the USG.


*Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) Disposition Services.* The organization provides DoD with worldwide reuse, recycling and disposal solutions that focus on efficiency, cost avoidance and compliance.


*DLA Disposition Services site.* The DLA Disposition Services office that has accountability for and control over disposable property. May be managed in part by a commercial contractor. The term is applicable whether the disposal facility is on a commercial site or a Government installation and applies to both Government and contractor employees performing the disposal mission.


*Demilitarization (DEMIL) Code A.* DEMIL not required.


*DEMIL.* The act of eliminating the functional capabilities and inherent military design features from DoD personal property. Methods and degree range from removal and destruction of critical features to total destruction by cutting, crushing, shredding, melting, burning, etc. DEMIL is required to prevent property from being used for its originally intended purpose and to prevent the release of inherent design information that could be used against the United States. DEMIL applies to material in both serviceable and unserviceable condition.


*Disposal.* End-of-life tasks or actions for residual materials resulting from demilitarization or disposition operations.


*Disposition.* The process of reusing, recycling, converting, redistributing, transferring, donating, selling, demilitarizing, treating, destroying, or fulfilling other end of life tasks or actions for DoD property. Does not include real (real estate) property.


*Diversion.* Includes collection, separation, and processing of material for use as raw material in the manufacture of goods sold or distributed in commerce or the reuse of material as substitutes for goods made of virgin material.


*DoD Activity Address Code (DoDAAC).* A 6-digit code assigned by the Defense Automatic Addressing System (DAAS) to provide a standardized address code system for identifying activities and for use in transmission of supply and logistics information that supports the movement of property.


*DoD Item Unique Identification (IUID) Registry.* The DoD data repository that receives input from both industry and Government sources and provides storage of, and access to, data that identifies and describes tangible Government personal property.


*Donation.* The act of providing surplus personal property at no charge to a qualified donation recipient, as allocated by the General Services Administration (GSA).


*Educational institution.* An approved, accredited, or licensed public or nonprofit institution or facility, entity, or organization conducting educational programs, including research for any such programs, such as a childcare center, school, college, university, school for the mentally handicapped, school for the physically handicapped, or an educational radio or television station.


*End of screening date.* The date when formal reutilization, transfer, and donation screening time expires.


*Estimated fair market value.* The selling agency's best estimate of what the property would be sold for if offered for public sale.


*Excess personal property.* (1) *Domestic excess.* Personal property that the United States and its territories and possessions, applicable to areas covered by GSA (*i.e.,* the 50 States, District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, American Samoa, Guam, Northern Mariana Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, the Marshall Islands, Palau, and the U.S. Virgin Islands), consider excess to the needs and mission requirements of the United States.


(2) *DoD Component excess.* Items of DoD Component owned property that are not required for their needs and the discharge of their responsibilities as determined by the head of the Service or Agency.


(3) *Foreign excess personal property (FEPP).* U.S.-owned excess personal property that is located outside the ZI. This property becomes surplus and is eligible for donation and sale as described in § 273.15(b).


*Federal civilian agency (FCA).* Any non-defense executive agency (*e.g.* DoS, Department of Homeland Security) or any establishment in the legislative or judicial branch of the USG (except the Senate, the House of Representatives, and the Architect of the Capitol and any activities under his or her direction).


*Federal condition code.* A two-digit code consisting of an alphabet supply condition code in the first digit, and a numeric or alphabet disposal condition code (DCC) in the second digit. A combination of the supply condition code and the DCC, which most accurately describes the materiel's physical condition.


(1) *Disposal condition code (DCC).* Codes assigned by the DLA Disposition Services site based upon inspection of materiel at time of receipt.


(2) *Supply condition codes.* Codes used to classify materiel in terms of readiness for issue and use or to identify action underway to change the status of materiel. These codes are assigned by the DoD Components. DLA Disposition Services may change a supply condition code if the code was assigned improperly and the property is of a non-technical nature. If change is not appropriate or property is of a technical nature, DLA Disposition Services sites may challenge a suspicious supply condition code.


*FEPP.* See excess personal property.


*Foreign military sales (FMS).* A process through which eligible foreign governments and international organizations may purchase defense articles and services from the USG. A government-to-government agreement, documented in accordance with DoD 5105.38-M.


*Foreign purchased property.* Property paid for by foreign countries, but where ownership is retained by the United States.


*Generating activity (“generator”).* The activity that declares personal property excess to its needs.


*Government furnished equipment.* An item of special tooling, special test equipment, or equipment, in the possession of, or directly acquired by, the Government and subsequently furnished to the contractor for the performance of a contract.


*Government furnished materiel.* Property provided by the U.S. Government for the purpose of being incorporated into or attached to a deliverable end item or that will be consumed or expended in performing a contract. Government-furnished materiel includes assemblies, components, parts, raw and process material, and small tools and supplies that may be consumed in normal use in performing a contract. Government-furnished materiel does not include material provided to contractors on a cash-sale basis nor does it include military property, which are government-owned components, contractor acquired property, government furnished equipment, or major end items being repaired by commercial contractors for return to the government.


*GSAXcess®.* A totally web-enabled platform that eligible customers use to access functions of GSAXcess® for reporting, searching, and selecting property. This includes the entry site for the Federal Excess Personal Property Utilization Program and the Federal Surplus Personal Property Donation Program operated by the GSA.


*Hazardous property (HP).* A composite term to describe DoD excess property, surplus property, and FEPP, which may be hazardous to human health, human safety, or the environment. Various Federal, State, and local safety and environmental laws regulate the use and disposal of HP. In more technical terms, HP includes property having one or more of the following characteristics:


(1) Has a flashpoint below 200 °F (93 °C) closed cup, or is subject to spontaneous heating or is subject to polymerization with release of large amounts of energy when handled, stored, and shipped without adequate control.


(2) Has a threshold limit value equal to or below 1,000 parts per million for gases and vapors, below 500 milligrams per cubic meter (mg/m
3) for fumes, and equal to or less than 30 million particles per cubic foot or 10 mg/m
3 for dusts (less than or equal to 2.0 fibers per cubic centimeter greater than 5 micrometers in length for fibrous materials).


(3) Causes 50 percent fatalities to test animals when a single oral dose is administered in doses of less than 500 mg per kilogram of test animal weight.


(4) Is a flammable solid as defined in 49 CFR 173.124, or is an oxidizer as defined in 49 CFR 173.127, or is a strong oxidizing or reducing agent with a half cell potential in acid solution of greater than +1.0 volt as specified in Latimer's table on the oxidation-reduction potential.


(5) Causes first-degree burns to skin in short-time exposure or is systematically toxic by skin contact.


(6) May produce dust, gases, fumes, vapors, mists, or smoke with one or more of the characteristics in the course of normal operations.


(7) Produces sensitizing or irritating effects.


(8) Is radioactive.


(9) Has special characteristics which, in the opinion of the manufacturer, could cause harm to personnel if used or stored improperly.


(10) Is hazardous in accordance with 29 CFR part 1910, also known as the Occupational Safety and Health Standards.


(11) Is hazardous in accordance with 49 CFR parts 171 through 179.


(12) Is regulated by the Environmental Protection Agency in accordance with 40 CFR parts 260 through 280.


*Hazardous waste (HW).* An item that is regulated pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 6901 or by State regulation as an HW. HW is defined federally at 40 CFR part 261. Overseas, HW is defined in the applicable final governing standards or overseas environmental baseline guidance document, or host nation laws and regulations.


*Identical bid.* Bids for the same item of property having the same total price.


*Industrial scrap.* Consists of short ends, machinings, spoiled materials, and similar residue generated by an industrial-funded activity.


*Information technology.* Any equipment or interconnected system or subsystem of equipment that is used in the automatic acquisition, storage, manipulation, management, movement, control, display, switching, interchange, transmission or reception of data or information by the DoD Component. Includes computers, ancillary equipment, software, firmware, and similar procedures, services (including support services), and related sources. Does not include any equipment that is acquired by a Federal contractor incidental to a Federal contract. Equipment is “used” by a DoD Component if the equipment is used by the DoD Component directly or is used by a contractor under a contract with the DoD Component that:


(1) Requires the use of such equipment.


(2) Requires the use to a significant extent of such equipment in the performance of a service or the furnishing of a product.


*Installation.* A military facility together with its buildings, building equipment, and subsidiary facilities such as piers, spurs, access roads, and beacons.


*International organizations.* For trade security control purposes, this term includes: Columbo Plan Council for Technical Cooperation in South and Southeast Asia; European Atomic Energy Community; Indus Basin Development; International Atomic Energy; International Red Cross; NATO; Organization of American States; Pan American Health Organization; United Nations (UN); UN Children's Fund; UN Development Program; UN Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization; UN High Commissioner for Refugees Programs; UN Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East; World Health Organization; and other international organizations approved by a U.S. diplomatic mission.


*Interservice.* Action by one Military Department or Defense Agency ICP to provide materiel and directly related services to another Military Department or Defense Agency ICP (either on a recurring or nonrecurring basis).


*Inventory adjustments.* Changes made in inventory quantities and values resulting from inventory recounts and validations.


*Inventory control point (ICP).* An organizational unit or activity within the DoD supply system that is assigned the primary responsibility for the materiel management of a group of items either for a particular Military Department or for the DoD as a whole. In addition to materiel manager functions, an ICP may perform other logistics functions in support of a particular Military Department or for a particular end item (*e.g.,* centralized computation of retail requirements levels and engineering tasks associated with weapon system components).


*Item unique identification (IUID).* A system of establishing globally widespread unique identifiers on items of supply within the DoD, which serves to distinguish a discrete entity or relationship from other like and unlike entities or relationships. Automatic identification technology is used to capture and communicate IUID information.


*Law enforcement agencies (LEAs).* Government agencies whose primary function is the enforcement of applicable Federal, State, and local laws, and whose compensated law enforcement officers have powers of arrest and apprehension.


*Local screening.* The onsite review of excess, surplus, and FEPP for reutilization, transfer, and donation.


*MAP property.* U.S. security assistance property provided under 22 U.S.C.2151, also known as the Foreign Assistance Act, generally on a non-reimbursable basis.


*Marketing.* The function of directing the flow of surplus and FEPP to the buyer, encompassing all related aspects of merchandising, market research, sale promotion, advertising, publicity, and selling.


*Material potentially presenting an explosive hazard (MPPEH).* Material owned or controlled by the Department of Defense that, prior to determination of its explosives safety status, potentially contains explosives or munitions (*e.g.,* munitions containers and packaging material; munitions debris remaining after munitions use, demilitarization, or disposal; and range-related debris) or potentially contains a high enough concentration of explosives that the material presents an explosive hazard (*e.g.,* equipment, drainage systems, holding tanks, piping, or ventilation ducts that were associated with munitions production, demilitarization, or disposal operations). Excluded from MPPEH are munitions within the DoD-established munitions management system and other items that may present explosion hazards (*e.g.,* gasoline cans and compressed gas cylinders) that are not munitions and are not intended for use as munitions.


*Munitions list item (MLI).* Any item contained on the USML in 22 CFR part 121. Defense articles, associated technical data (including software), and defense services recorded or stored in any physical form, controlled by 22 CFR parts 120 through 130. 22 CFR part 121, which contains the USML, is administered by the DoS Directorate of Defense Trade Controls.


*Museum, DoD or Service.* An appropriated fund entity that is a permanent activity with a historical collection, open to both the military and civilian public at regularly scheduled hours, and is in the care of a professional qualified staff that performs curatorial and related historical duties full time.


*Mutilation.* A process that renders materiel unfit for its originally intended purposes by cutting, tearing, scratching, crushing, breaking, punching, shearing, burning, neutralizing, etc.


*National stock number (NSN).* The 13-digit stock number replacing the 11-digit federal stock number. It consists of the 4-digit federal supply classification code and the 9-digit national item identification number. The national item identification number consists of a 2-digit National Codification Bureau number designating the central cataloging office (whether North Atlantic Treaty Organization or other friendly country) that assigned the number and a 7-digit (xxx-xxxx) nonsignificant number. Arrange the number as follows: 9999-00-999-9999.


*Nonappropriated funds (NAF).* Funds generated by DoD military and civilian personnel and their dependents and used to augment funds appropriated by Congress to provide a comprehensive, morale building, welfare, religious, educational, and recreational program, designed to improve the well-being of military and civilian personnel and their dependents.


*NAF property.* Property purchased with NAFs, by religious activities or nonappropriated morale welfare or recreational activities, post exchanges, ships stores, officer and noncommissioned officer clubs, and similar activities. Such property is not Federal property.


*Nonprofit institution.* An institution or organization, no part of the net earnings of which inures or may lawfully inure to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual, and which has been held to be tax exempt under the provisions of 26 U.S.C. 501, also known as the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.


*Personal property.* Property except real property. Excludes records of the Federal Government, battleships, cruisers, aircraft carriers, destroyers, and submarines.


*Precious metals recovery program (PMRP).* A DoD program for identification, accumulation, recovery, and refinement of precious metals (PM) from excess and surplus end items, scrap, hypo solution, and other PM bearing materiel for authorized internal purposes or as Government furnished materiel.


*Precious metals (PM).* Gold, silver, and the platinum group metals (platinum, palladium, iridium, rhodium, osmium, and ruthenium).


*Privately owned personal property.* Personal effects of DoD personnel (military or civilian) that are not, nor will ever become, government property unless the owner (or heirs, next of kin, or legal representative of the owner) executes a written and signed release document unconditionally giving the USG all right, title, and interest in the privately owned property.


*Qualified recycling programs (QRP).* Organized operations that require concerted efforts to cost effectively divert or recover scrap or waste, as well as efforts to identify, segregate, and maintain the integrity of recyclable material to maintain or enhance its marketability. If administered by a DoD Component, a QRP includes adherence to a control process providing accountability for all materials processed through program operations.


*Radioactive material.* Any material or combination of materials that spontaneously emits ionizing radiation and which is subject to regulation as radioactive or nuclear material under any Federal law or regulation.


*Reclamation.* A cost avoidance or savings measure to recover useful (serviceable) end items, repair parts, components, or assemblies from one or more principal end items of equipment or assemblies (usually Supply condition codes (SCCs), H, P, and R) for the purpose of restoration to use through replacement or repair of one or more unserviceable, but repairable principal end item of equipment or assemblies (usually SCCs E, F, and G). Reclamation is preferable prior to disposition (*e.g.,* DLA Disposition Services site turn-in), but end items or assemblies may be withdrawn from DLA Disposition Services site for reclamation purposes.


*Responsibility criteria.* The situations outlined in 41 CFR chapter 102 that require some certifications from buyers; either that the buyer knows they need to take care of the property because of its characteristics, or because the buyer must meet certain professional or licensing criteria.


*Responsive bid.* A bid that meets all the terms, conditions, and specifications necessary.


*Restricted parties.* Those countries or entities that the Department of State (DoS), Department of Commerce (DOC), or Treasury have determined to be prohibited or sanctioned for the purpose of export, sale, transfer, or resale of items controlled on the United States Munitions List (USML) or CCL. A consolidated list of prohibited entities or destinations for which transfers may be limited or barred, may be found at: *http://export.gov/ecr/eg_main_023148.asp.*

*Reutilization.* The act of re-issuing FEPP and excess property to DoD Components. Also includes qualified special programs (*e.g.,* LEA, Humanitarian Assistance Program (HAP), Military Affiliate Radio System (MARS)) pursuant to applicable enabling statutes.


*Reutilization screening.* The act of reviewing, either by automated or physical means, available FEPP, excess or surplus personal property to meet known or anticipated requirements.


*Sales contract.* An agreement between two parties, binding upon both, to transfer title of specified property for a consideration.


*Sales contracting officer (SCO).* An individual who has been duly appointed and granted the authority conferred by law according to the procedures in this part to sell surplus and FEPP by any of the authorized and prescribed methods of sale. Also referred to as the SAR.


*Scrap.* Recyclable waste and discarded materials derived from items that have been rendered useless beyond repair, rehabilitation, or restoration such that the item's original identity, utility, form, fit and function have been destroyed. Items can be classified as scrap if processed by cutting, tearing, crushing, mangling, shredding, or melting. Intact or recognizable USML or CCL items, components, and parts are not scrap. 41 CFR 102-36.40 provides additional information on scrap.


*Screening.* The process of physically inspecting property or reviewing lists or reports of property to determine whether it is usable or needed.


*Screening period.* The period in which excess and surplus personal property is made available for reutilization, transfer, or surplus donation to eligible recipients.


*Security assistance.* A group of programs, authorized by law, that allows the transfer of military articles and services to friendly foreign governments.


*Small arms and light weapons.* Man-portable weapons made or modified to military specifications for use as lethal instruments of war that expel a shot, bullet, or projectile by action of an explosive. Small arms are broadly categorized as those weapons intended for use by individual members of armed or security forces. They include handguns; rifles and carbines; sub-machine guns; and light machine guns. Light weapons are broadly categorized as those weapons designed for use by two or three members of armed or security forces serving as a crew, although some may be used by a single person. They include heavy machine guns; hand-held under-barrel and mounted grenade launchers; portable anti-aircraft guns; portable anti-tank guns; recoilless rifles; man-portable launchers of missile and rocket systems; and mortars.


*Solid waste.* Includes garbage, refuse, and other discarded materials, including solid waste materials resulting from industrial, commercial, and agricultural operations, and from community activities. Includes solids, liquid, semi-solid or contained gaseous material which is discarded and not otherwise excluded by statute or regulation. Mining and agricultural solid wastes, hazardous wastes (HW), sludge, construction and demolition wastes, and infectious wastes are not included in this category.


*Special programs.* Programs specified by legislative approval, such as FMS, LEAs and fire fighters, identified on DLA Disposition Services Web site (*https://www.dispositionservices.dla.mil/rtd03/miscprograms.shtml*).


*State agency for surplus property (SASP).* The agency designated under State law to receive Federal surplus personal property for distribution to eligible donation recipients within the States as provided for in 40 U.S.C. 549.


*State or local government.* A State, territory, or possession of the United States, the District of Columbia, and any political subdivision or instrumentality thereof.


*Transfer.* The act of providing FEPP and excess personal property to FCAs as stipulated in the FMR. Property is allocated by the GSA.


*Transfer order.* Document (SF 122 and SF 123) issued by DLA Disposition Services or the headquarters or regional office of GSA directing issue of excess personal property.


*Trade security control (TSCs).* Policy and procedures, in accordance with DoD Instruction 2030.08, designed to prevent the sale or shipment of USG materiel to any person, organization, or country whose interests are unfriendly or hostile to those of the United States and to ensure that the disposal of DoD personal property is performed in compliance with U.S. export control laws and regulations, the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) in 22 CFR parts 120 through 130, and the EAR in 15 CFR parts 730 through 774.


*Unique item identifier (UII).* A set of data elements marked on an item that is globally unique and unambiguous. The term includes a concatenated UII or a DoD recognized unique identification equivalent.


*Usable property.* Commercial and military type property other than scrap and waste.


*Wash-post.* A methodology for transfer of accountability to the DLA Disposition Services site whereby the DLA Disposition Services site only accepts accountability at the time they also document a release from the account, through reutilization, transfer, donation, sales, or disposal.


*Zone of interior (ZI).* The United States and its territories and possessions, applicable to areas covered by GSA and where excess property is considered domestic excess. Includes the 50 States, District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, American Samoa, Guam, Northern Mariana Islands, and the U.S. Virgin Islands.




