# § 4262.7   Plan information.

(a) *Basic information.* An application for special financial assistance must include all of the following information with respect to the plan and amount of special financial assistance requested:


(1) Name of the plan, Employer Identification Number (EIN), and three-digit Plan Number (PN).


(2) Name of the individual filing the application and role of the individual with respect to the plan.


(3) Name, address, email, and telephone number of the plan sponsor and the plan sponsor's authorized representatives, if any.


(4) The total amount of special financial assistance requested under § 4262.4(a)(1) or (2).


(b) *Eligibility.* An application must identify the eligibility requirements in § 4262.3 that the plan satisfies to be eligible for special financial assistance. An application for a plan that is eligible under section 4262(b)(1)(C) of ERISA must include a demonstration to support that the plan meets the eligibility requirements.


(c) *Priority group identification.* An application must identify any priority group under § 4262.10(d)(2) that the plan is in. An application must include a demonstration to support the plan's inclusion in a priority group, unless the plan is insolvent under section 4245(a) of ERISA, has implemented a suspension of benefits under section 305(e)(9) of ERISA as of March 11, 2021, is in critical and declining status (as defined in section 305(b)(6) of ERISA) and had 350,000 or more participants, or is listed on PBGC's website at *www.pbgc.gov* as a plan in priority group 6, as defined under § 4262.10(d)(2)(vi).


(d) *Plans with a suspension of benefits.* If a plan previously suspended benefits under section 305(e)(9) or 4245(a) of ERISA, its application must include a description of how the plan will reinstate the benefits that were previously suspended and a proposed schedule showing aggregate amount and timing of payments (in accordance with § 4262.15) to participants and beneficiaries under the plan. The proposed schedule should be prepared assuming the effective date for reinstatement is the SFA measurement date and that payments for previously suspended benefits described in § 4262.15(a)(2) are paid or commence on the SFA measurement date. If the plan restored benefits under 26 CFR 1.432(e)(9)-1(e)(3) before the SFA measurement date, the proposed schedule should reflect the amount and timing of payments of restored benefits and the effect of the restoration on the benefits remaining to be reinstated.


(e) *Plan documentation.* An application must include all of the following plan documentation:


(1) Most recent plan document or restatement of the plan document and all subsequent amendments adopted (if any), including a copy of the executed plan amendment required under § 4262.6(e)(1).


(2) If the plan suspended benefits under section 305(e)(9) or 4245(a) of ERISA, a copy of the proposed plan amendment(s) required under § 4262.6(e)(2) and a certification by the plan sponsor that the plan amendment(s) will be timely adopted. Such certification must be signed either by all members of the plan's board of trustees or by one or more trustees duly authorized to sign the certification on behalf of the entire board and to commit the board to timely adopting the amendment after the plan's application for special financial assistance is approved, with each signature accompanied by the printed name and title of the signer.


(3) Most recent trust agreement or restatement of the trust agreement and all subsequent adopted amendments (if any).


(4) Most recent IRS determination letter.


(5) Actuarial valuation reports completed for the 2018 plan year and each subsequent actuarial valuation report completed before the date the plan's initial application for special financial assistance is filed.


(6) Most recent rehabilitation plan (or funding improvement plan, if applicable), including all subsequent amendments and updates, and the percentage of total contributions received under each schedule of the rehabilitation plan for the most recent plan year available. If the most recent rehabilitation plan does not include historical documentation of rehabilitation plan changes (if any) that occurred in calendar year 2020 and later, these details must be provided in a clearly identified supplemental document.


(7) Most recent Form 5500 and all schedules and attachments (including the audited financial statement).


(8) Plan actuary's certification of plan status required under section 305(b)(3) of ERISA completed for the 2018 plan year and each subsequent annual certification of plan status completed before the date the plan's initial application was filed, with documentation supporting each certification, which must include the projections and information required in the special financial assistance instructions on PBGC's website at *www.pbgc.gov.*

(9) Most recent statement for each of the plan's cash and investment accounts.


(10) Most recent plan financial statement (audited, or unaudited if audited is not available).


(11) Bank account and other information necessary for electronic payment of funds.


(12) All written policies and procedures governing withdrawal liability determination, assessment, collection, settlement, and payment.






