# § 135.165   Communication and navigation equipment: Extended over-water or IFR operations.

(a) *Aircraft navigation equipment requirements*—*General.* Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, no person may conduct operations under IFR or extended over-water unless—


(1) The en route navigation aids necessary for navigating the aircraft along the route (e.g., ATS routes, arrival and departure routes, and instrument approach procedures, including missed approach procedures if a missed approach routing is specified in the procedure) are available and suitable for use by the navigation systems required by this section:


(2) The aircraft used in extended over-water operations is equipped with at least two-approved independent navigation systems suitable for navigating the aircraft along the route to be flown within the degree of accuracy required for ATC.


(3) The aircraft used for IFR operations is equipped with at least—


(i) One marker beacon receiver providing visual and aural signals; and


(ii) One ILS receiver.


(4) Any RNAV system used to meet the navigation equipment requirements of this section is authorized in the certificate holder's operations specifications.


(b) *Use of a single independent navigation system for IFR operations.* The aircraft may be equipped with a single independent navigation system suitable for navigating the aircraft along the route to be flown within the degree of accuracy required for ATC if:


(1) It can be shown that the aircraft is equipped with at least one other independent navigation system suitable, in the event of loss of the navigation capability of the single independent navigation system permitted by this paragraph at any point along the route, for proceeding safely to a suitable airport and completing an instrument approach; and


(2) The aircraft has sufficient fuel so that the flight may proceed safely to a suitable airport by use of the remaining navigation system, and complete an instrument approach and land.


(c) *VOR navigation equipment.* Whenever VOR navigation equipment is required by paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, no person may operate an aircraft unless it is equipped with at least one approved DME or suitable RNAV system.


(d) *Airplane communication equipment requirements.* Except as permitted in paragraph (e) of this section, no person may operate a turbojet airplane having a passenger seat configuration, excluding any pilot seat, of 10 seats or more, or a multiengine airplane in a commuter operation, as defined in part 110 of this chapter, under IFR or in extended over-water operations unless the airplane is equipped with—


(1) At least two independent communication systems necessary under normal operating conditions to fulfill the functions specified in § 121.347(a) of this chapter; and


(2) At least one of the communication systems required by paragraph (d)(1) of this section must have two-way voice communication capability.


(e) *IFR or extended over-water communications equipment requirements.* A person may operate an aircraft other than that specified in paragraph (d) of this section under IFR or in extended over-water operations if it meets all of the requirements of this section, with the exception that only one communication system transmitter is required for operations other than extended over-water operations.


(f) *Additional aircraft communication equipment requirements.* In addition to the requirements in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, no person may operate an aircraft under IFR or in extended over-water operations unless it is equipped with at least:


(1) Two microphones; and


(2) Two headsets or one headset and one speaker.


(g) *Extended over-water exceptions.* Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraphs (a), (d), and (e) of this section, installation and use of a single long-range navigation system and a single long-range communication system for extended over-water operations in certain geographic areas may be authorized by the Administrator and approved in the certificate holder's operations specifications. The following are among the operational factors the Administrator may consider in granting an authorization:


(1) The ability of the flight crew to navigate the airplane along the route within the degree of accuracy required for ATC;


(2) The length of the route being flown; and


(3) The duration of the very high frequency communications gap.



---

[N] [Doc. No. FAA-2002-14002, 72 FR 31684, June 7, 2007, as amended by FAA-2023-1275, Amdt. No. 135-147, 89 FR 92486, Nov. 21, 2024]




