# § 404.1249   When and where to make deposits of contributions and to file contribution returns and wage reports—for wages paid prior to 1987.

(a) *Deposits of contributions.* The State shall pay contributions in the manner required in § 404.1262. (For failure to make deposits when due see § 404.1265.) The contribution payment is considered made when received by the appropriate Federal Reserve bank or branch (see § 404.1262). Except as provided in paragraphs (b) (2) and (3) and paragraph (c) of this section, contributions are due and payable as follows:


(1) *For wages paid before July 1, 1980.* Contribution payments for wages paid in a calendar quarter are due on the 15th day of the second month following the end of the calendar quarter during which the wages were paid.


(2) *For wages paid beginning July 1, 1980, and before January 1984.* Contribution payments for wages paid in a calendar month are due within the thirty day period following the last day of that month.


(3) *For wages paid after December 1983 and prior to 1987.* Contribution payments for wages paid in the first half of a calendar month are due on the last day of that month. Contribution payments for wages paid in the second half of that calendar month are due on the fifteenth day of the next month. (For purposes of this section, the first half of a calendar month is the first 15 days of that month and the second half is the remainder of that month.)


(b) *Contribution returns and wage reports*—(1) *Where to be filed.* The State shall file the original copies of all contribution returns, wage reports, and adjustment reports with the SSA.


(2) *When to be filed*—(i) *For years prior to execution of agreement or modification.* If an agreement or modification provides for the coverage of employees for periods prior to 1987, the State shall pay contributions due and shall file wage reports with SSA for these periods within 90 days after the date of the notice that the Commissioner has signed the agreement or modification.


(ii) *For year of execution of agreement or modification.* If the agreement or modification provides for the coverage of employees for the year of execution of the agreement or modification, the State may, within 90 days after the date of the notice that the Commissioner has signed the agreement or modification, submit a single contribution return and pay all contributions due for the following periods:


(A) The month in which the agreement or modification was signed;


(B) Any prior months in that year; and


(C) Any subsequent months before January 1984 (half-months after December 1983) whose contribution return and payment due date is within this 90 day period. The State shall file wage reports for that year by February 28 of the year following the date of execution or within 90 days of the date of the notice, whichever is later.


(iii) *For years after execution of agreement or modification.* Except as described in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, when the State pays its contributions under paragraph (a) of this section, it shall also file a contribution return. The State shall file the wage report for any calendar year after the year of execution of the agreement or modification by February 28 of the following calendar year.


(iv) For good cause shown, and upon written request by a State, the Commissioner may allow additional time for filing the reports and paying the related contributions described in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (b)(2)(ii) of this section.


(3) *Due date is on a weekend, legal holiday or Federal nonworkday.* If the last day for filing the wage report falls on a weekend, legal holiday or Federal nonworkday, the State may file the wage report on the next Federal workday. If the due date for paying contributions for the wages paid in a period (as specified in paragraph (a) of this section) falls on a weekend, legal holiday or Federal nonworkday, the State shall pay the contributions and shall file the contribution return no later than—


(i) The preceding Federal workday for wages paid in July 1980 through December 1983;


(ii) The next Federal workday for wages paid before July 1980 or after December 1983.


(4) *Submitting reports and payments.* When submitting the contribution returns or wage reports the State shall release them in time to reach SSA by the due date. When submitting contribution payments as described in § 404.1262, the State shall release the payments in time to reach the appropriate Federal Reserve bank or branch by the due date. In determining when to release any returns, reports, or payments the State shall provide sufficient time for them to timely reach their destination under the method of submission used, e.g., mail or electronic transfer of funds.


(c) *Payments by third party on account of sickness or accident disability.* Where a third party makes a payment to an employee on account of sickness or accident disability which constitutes wages for services covered under a State agreement, the wages will be considered, for purposes of the deposits required under this section, to have been paid to the employee on the date on which the employer receives notice from the third party of the amount of the payment. No interest will be assessed for failure to make a timely deposit of contributions due on such wages for which a deposit was made after December 1981 and before July 1982, to the extent that the failure to make the deposit timely is due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect.



---

[N] [53 FR 32976, Aug. 29, 1988, as amended at 62 FR 38451, July 18, 1997; 66 FR 28836, May 25, 2001]




