# § 53.153   Time for filing returns.

(a) *Quarterly returns.* Each return required to be made under § 53.151(a) for a return period of one calendar quarter shall be filed on or before the last day of the first calendar month following the close of the period for which it is made. However, a return may be filed on or before the 10th day of the second calendar month following the close of the period if timely deposits under section 6302(c) of the Code and § 53.157 have been made in full payment of the taxes due for the period. For purposes of the preceding sentence, a deposit which is not required by regulations in respect of the return period may be made on or before the last day of the first calendar month following the close of the period.


(b) *Monthly, semimonthly and annual returns*—(1) *Monthly returns.* Each return required to be made under § 53.151(b) for a monthly period shall be filed not later than the 15th day of the month following the close of the period for which it is made.


(2) *Semimonthly returns.* Each return required to be made under § 53.151(b) for a semimonthly period shall be filed not later than the 10th day of the semimonthly period following the close of the period for which it is made.


(3) *Annual returns.* Each return filed under the provisions of § 53.151(a) for a return period of one calendar year shall be filed not later than the 31st day following the close of the calendar year.


(c) *Last day for filing.* If the due date falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the return and remittance shall be due on the next succeeding day which is not a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday. For purposes of this section, “legal holiday” is defined by section 7503 of the Code and 26 CFR 301.7503(b).


(d) *Late filing.* The taxpayer is subject to a penalty for failure to file a return or to pay tax within the prescribed time as imposed by section 6651 of the Code, if the return and remittance are not filed before the close of business on the prescribed last day of filing. For additions to the tax in the case of failure to file a return within the prescribed time, see 27 CFR 70.96.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-308, 56 FR 303, Jan. 3, 1991, as amended by T.D. ATF-330, 57 FR 40325, Sept. 3, 1992]




