# ยง 2423.21   Motions procedure.

(a) *General requirements.* All motions, except those made during a prehearing conference or hearing, shall be in writing. Motions for an extension of time, postponement of a hearing, or any other procedural ruling shall include a statement of the position of the other parties on the motion. All written motions and responses in subparts B, C, or D of this part shall satisfy the filing and service requirements of part 2429 of this subchapter. 


(b) *Motions made to the Administrative Law Judge.* Prehearing motions and motions made at the hearing shall be filed with the Administrative Law Judge. Unless otherwise specified in subparts B or C of this part, or otherwise directed or approved by the Administrative Law Judge: 


(1) Prehearing motions shall be filed at least 10 days prior to the hearing, and responses shall be filed within 5 days after the date of service of the motion; 


(2) Responses to motions made during the hearing shall be filed prior to the close of hearing; 


(3) Posthearing motions shall be filed within 10 days after the date the hearing closes, and responses shall be filed within 5 days after the date of service of the motion; and 


(4) Motions to correct the transcript shall be filed with the Administrative Law Judge within 10 days after receipt of the transcript, and responses shall be filed within 5 days after the date of service of the motion. 


(c) *Post-transmission motions.* After the case has been transmitted to the Authority, motions shall be filed with the Authority. Responses shall be filed within 5 days after the date of service of the motion. 


(d) *Interlocutory appeals.* Motions for an interlocutory appeal of any ruling and responses shall be filed in accordance with this section and ยง 2423.31(c). 




