# § 171.22   Effective date of final decisions in disciplinary, membership denial and registration actions.

(a) *General rule.* A final decision of the National Futures Association in a disciplinary action, membership denial action or registration action shall be effective thirty days after service of the notice described in § 171.21.


(b) *Petitions for stay pending review or for an emergency effective date*—(1) *Stay pending review.* Within ten days of service of the notice described in § 171.21, any aggrieved party may seek from the Commission a stay pending consideration of the merits of an appeal by filing and serving an appropriate petition. The mere filing of such a petition shall not stay the effective date of the decision. The burden of persuasion shall rest with the party seeking the stay. If the Commission does not grant the petition prior to the effective date of the decision under review, it shall be deemed denied. All petitions for stay must be accompanied by a notice of appeal.


(2) *Emergency effective date.* Within ten days of service of the notice described in § 171.21, the National Futures Association may seek from the Commission an order establishing an emergency effective date for the decision by filing and serving an appropriate petition. The mere filing of such a petition shall not alter the effective date of the decision. The burden of persuasion rests with the National Futures Association. If the Commission does not grant the petition by the date specified as the emergency effective date, it shall be deemed denied.


(3) *Contents of petition for stay and petition for an emergency effective date.* A petition for stay or for an emergency effective date shall be in writing. Material factual allegations shall be supported by an affidavit or other sworn statement unless the parties stipulate that the material facts are not in dispute.


(4) *Response.* Within five days of the service of the petition, a party may file in opposition to the petition. Material factual allegations shall be supported by an affidavit or other sworn statement unless the parties stipulate that the material facts are not in dispute.


(c) *Standards for determining petitions for a stay or an emergency effective date petition.* In reviewing petitions filed under this seciton, the Commission shall consider:


(1) The likelihood that a challenge to the merits of the decision will be successful; and


(2) The likelihood that the denial of the petition would result in irreparable harm to the petitioner; and


(3) The effect a grant of the petition would have on the opposing party; and


(4) The effect a grant or denial of the petition would have on the public interest.


(d) *Expedited consideration.* If, in its view, it is necessary to protect the petitioner's right to a meaningful determination of the issues raised in the petition, the Commission may act upon a petition for a stay or for an emergency effective date prior to its receipt of an opposing party's response. Any party aggrieved by such expedited consideration may seek reconsideration within seven days of service of the decision.




