# § 3288.20   Reporting a defect.

(a) *Making a report.* To preserve the right to request dispute resolution through HUD, alleged defects must be reported to the manufacturer, retailer, installer, HUD, or a State Administrative Agency. An alleged defect may be reported by a homeowner, manufacturer, retailer, or installer.


(b) *Form of report.* It is recommended that alleged defects be reported in writing, including, but not limited to, e-mail, written letter, certified mail, or fax. The existence of an alleged defect may also be reported by telephone.


(c) *Content of report.* No particular form or format is required to report an alleged defect, but any such report must, at a minimum, include a description of the alleged defect, the name of homeowner, and the address of the home.


(d) *Record of report*—(1) *To evidence timeliness.* To establish timely reporting, the report of an alleged defect that is made to the manufacturer, retailer, installer, or a State Administrative Agency of the manufactured home should be done in a manner that will create a dated record of the report that demonstrates that the report was made within 1 year after the date of installation; for example, by certified mail, fax, or email. Persons who report an alleged defect by telephone should make a contemporaneous note of the telephone call, including date, time, the name of the person who received the report, the name of the business contacted, and the telephone number called. If the matter goes to arbitration, the arbitrator and HUD will review whether there is sufficient evidence to believe the report was made on a timely basis.


(2) *Obligation to retain.* Each report of a defect, including logs of telephonic complaints, received by a manufacturer, retailer, a State Administrative Agency or installer, must be maintained for 3 years from the date of receipt.


(e) *Reports made to a State Administrative Agency.* Reports of defects in the manufactured home that are made in the first year after its installation can be sent to the appropriate State Administrative Agency. Contact information about a State Administrative Agency is available at *http://www.hud.gov.* Contact the appropriate State Administrative Agency to determine the method for making the report.


(f) *Reports made to HUD.* Reports of alleged defects in the manufactured home that are made in the first year after its installation can be sent to HUD. The report to HUD may be made using any of the following methods:


(1) In writing at: HUD, Office of Regulatory Affairs and Manufactured Housing, Attn: Dispute Resolution, 451 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20410-8000;


(2) By telephone at: (202) 708-6423 or (800) 927-2891;


(3) By fax at: (202) 708-4213; or


(4) By e-mail at *mhs@hud.gov.*

(g) *Effect of report.* The reporting of an alleged defect does not initiate the HUD Manufactured Home Dispute Resolution Program, but only establishes whether the requirement of timely reporting in accordance with § 3288.15(b) has been met. The HUD Manufactured Home Dispute Resolution Process is initiated when a request for dispute resolution is submitted to HUD in accordance with § 3288.25.




