# 970.5215-3   Conditional payment of fee, profit, and other incentives—facility management contracts

As prescribed in 970.1504-3(b), insert the following clause:


(a) *Definitions.* “Amount of payment for otherwise earned fee, fixed fee, profit, or other incentives for an evaluation period” means the quantity the Contracting Officer or Fee Determining Official determines the Contractor is due for its performance in consideration of the Performance Evaluation and Measurement Plan, Award Fee Plan, or similar document prior to a separate determination that the Contractor did not comply with a term or condition of the contract or experienced a failure relating to: environment, safety, and health or security or safeguarding of Restricted Data and other classified information. If the contract includes incentives allocable to more than one evaluation period, the amount of payment for otherwise earned fee, fixed fee, profit, or other incentives for an evaluation period includes the allocable amount of payment for each such incentive for otherwise earned fee, fixed fee, profit, or other incentives. The allocable amount is the total amount divided by the number of evaluation periods the incentive covered. “Amount actually payable to the Contractor for an evaluation period” means: (the amount of payment for otherwise earned fee, fixed fee, profit, or other incentives for the evaluation period) less (the amount of any reduction under this clause and the amount of any reductions under other clauses to the amount of payment for otherwise earned fee, fixed fee, profit, or other incentives for the evaluation period).


(b) *General.* (Note: If this contract does not include the Security Requirements clause (48 CFR 952.204-2), the requirements of this clause related to security or safeguarding of Restricted Data and other classified information do not apply.)


(1) The amount of payment of otherwise earned fee, fixed fee, profit, or other incentives for any evaluation period under this contract is dependent upon the Contractor's and the Contractor's employees' compliance during the evaluation period with the performance requirements of this contract relating to:


(i) Environment, safety and health (ES&H), which includes worker safety and health (WS&H); and


(ii) Security or safeguarding of Restricted Data and other classified information.


(2) The ES&H performance requirements of this contract are set forth in its ES&H terms and conditions, including the DOE-approved contractor Integrated Safety Management System (ISMS) or similar document. Financial incentives for timely mission accomplishment or cost effectiveness shall never compromise or impede full and effective implementation of the ISMS and full ES&H compliance.


(3) The security or safeguarding of Restricted Data and other classified information performance requirements of this contract are set forth in: the clause of this contract entitled, “Security Requirements”; the clause of this contract entitled “Laws, Regulations, and DOE Directives”; and other terms and conditions of this contract.


(4) If the Contractor does not meet the performance requirements of this contract relating to ES&H or security or safeguarding of Restricted Data and other classified information during any evaluation period established under the contract pursuant to the clause of this contract entitled “Total Available Fee: Base Fee Amount and Performance Fee Amount,” the amount of payment of otherwise earned fee, fixed fee, profit or other incentives for the evaluation period may be unilaterally reduced by the Contracting Officer.


(c) *Amount of Reduction.* (1) The Contracting Officer will unilaterally determine the amount of reduction to the amount of payment for otherwise earned fee, fixed fee, profit, or other incentives for an evaluation period based on the severity of the performance failure pursuant to the degrees of failure specified in paragraphs (e) and (f) of this clause. The percent reduction for each performance failure will be: not less than 26% nor more than 100% for a first degree failure; not less than 11% or more than 26% for a second degree failure; and no more than 11% for a third degree failure.


(2) For a reduction allocable to more than one evaluation period, the Government will effect the allocation at the end of the evaluation period in which it determines the total amount of the reduction. The allocable amount is the total reduction amount divided by the number of evaluation periods the reduction covered.


(3) The Government will reduce the payment of otherwise earned fee, fixed fee, profit, or other incentives as soon as practicable after the end of the evaluation period in which the performance failure occurs. If the Government is not aware of the failure, it will effect the reduction as soon as practicable after becoming aware.


(4) In determining the reduction and in applying the mitigating factors, the Contracting Officer must consider the Contractor's overall performance in meeting the ES&H, and security or safeguarding of Restricted Data and other classified information performance requirements of the contract. Such consideration must include performance against any site-specific performance criteria/requirements that provide additional definition or guidance for the amount of reduction or for the applicability of mitigating factors. In all cases, the Contracting Office must consider mitigating factors that may warrant a reduction below the reduction that would be appropriate absent mitigating factors. Mitigating factors include, but are not limited to, the following (paragraphs (c)(4)(v), (vi), (vii), and (viii) of this clause apply to ES&H only):


(i) Degree of control the Contractor had over the event or incident;


(ii) Efforts the Contractor made to anticipate and mitigate the possibility of the event in advance;


(iii) Contractor self-identification and response to the event to mitigate impacts and recurrence;


(iv) General status (trend and absolute performance) of: ES&H and compliance in related areas; or of safeguarding Restricted Data and other classified information and compliance in related areas;


(v) Contractor demonstration to the Contracting Officer's satisfaction that the principles of industrial ES&H standards are routinely practiced;


(vi) Event caused by “Good Samaritan” act by the Contractor (*e.g.,* offsite emergency response);


(vii) Contractor demonstration that a performance measurement system is routinely used to improve and maintain ES&H performance (including effective resource allocation) and to support DOE corporate decision-making (*e.g.,* policy, ES&H programs); and


(viii) Contractor demonstration that an operating experience and feedback program is functioning that demonstrably affects continuous improvement in ES&H by use of lessons learned and best practices inter- and intra-DOE sites.


(d) *Reductions to the amount of payments the Contractor has received for earned fee, fixed fee, profit, or other incentives under this and other clauses.*

(1) The amount of the reduction under this clause for an evaluation period, in combination with the amount of any reduction under any other clause, shall not exceed the amount of payment for otherwise earned fee, fixed fee, profit, or other incentives for the evaluation period.


(2) If at any time during the contract any reductions under this clause or other clauses result in the sum of the amount of payments the Contractor has received for earned fee, fixed fee, profit, or other incentives to exceed the sum of the amounts of actually payable to the Contractor, the Contractor shall immediately return the excess to the Government.


(3) At the end of the contract—


(i) The Government will pay the Contractor the amount by which the sum of amounts actually payable to the Contractor exceeds the sum of the payments the Contractor has received; or


(ii) The Contractor shall return to the Government the amount by which the sum of the payments the Contractor has received exceeds the sum of the amounts actually payable to the Contractor.


(e) *Environment, Safety and Health (ES&H).* Performance failures occur if the Contractor does not comply with the contract's ES&H terms and conditions, including applicable ES&H laws, regulations, DOE directives, and the DOE approved Contractor ISMS. The degrees of performance failure under which reductions of earned or fixed fee, profit, or share of cost savings will be determined are:


(1) *First Degree.* Performance failures most adverse to ES&H are first degree. They include:


(i) Failure to develop and obtain required DOE approval of an ISMS. (The Government will perform necessary reviews in a timely manner and not unreasonably withhold approval.)


(ii) Performance failures determined, per applicable ES&H laws, regulations, or DOE directives, to have resulted in, or that could reasonably be expected to result in, serious injury or death to a worker.


(iii) Occurrence of any accident or event that meets the criteria of Appendix A of DOE Order 225.1B (or successor Order) and results in a determination to conduct a Federal Accident Investigation Board.


(2) *Second Degree.* Performance failures significantly adverse to ES&H are second degree. They include:


(i) Failures to comply with an approved ISMS.


(ii) Failures that have been determined, per applicable ES&H laws, regulations, or DOE directives, to have resulted in, or could reasonably be expected to result in, an actual injury, exposure, or exceedance that occurred or nearly occurred but had minor practical long-term health consequences.


(iii) A breakdown of the Safety Management System.


(iv) The following performance failures or performance failures of similar import will be considered second degree:


(A) Non-compliance with applicable ES&H laws, regulations, or DOE directives actually resulting in an accident that meets the criteria of Appendix A of DOE Order 225.1B (or successor Order) but not resulting in a determination to conduct a Federal Accident Investigation Board.


(B) Non-compliance with applicable ES&H laws, regulations, or DOE directives that results in a near miss of an accident or event that could have resulted in an adverse effect and a determination to conduct a Federal Accident Investigation Board. (A near miss is a situation in which an inappropriate action occurs, or a necessary action is omitted, that does not result in an adverse effect.)


(3) *Third Degree.* Performance failures determined per applicable ES&H laws, regulations, or DOE directives to reflect a lack of focus on improving ES&H are third degree. They include:


(i) Non-compliance with applicable ES&H laws, regulations, or DOE directives actually resulting in potential breakdown of the Safety Management System. The following performance failures or performance failures of similar import will be considered third degree:


(A) Failure to implement effective corrective actions to address deficiencies/non-compliances documented through: external (*e.g.,* Federal) oversight and/or reported per DOE Order 231.B (or successor Order) requirements; or internal oversight of 10 CFR parts 830, 835, 850, and 851, or DOE Orders 227.1A and 436.1 (or successor Order) requirements.


(B) Multiple similar non-compliances identified by external (*e.g.,* Federal) oversight that in aggregate indicate a significant programmatic breakdown.


(C) Non-compliances that have, or may have, significant negative impacts to the worker, the public, or the environment or that indicate a significant programmatic breakdown.


(D) Failure to notify DOE upon discovery of events or conditions where notification is required by the terms and conditions of the contract.


(f) *Security or Safeguarding Restricted Data and Other Classified Information.* Performance failures occur if the Contractor does not comply with the terms and conditions of this contract relating to the safeguarding of Restricted Data and other classified information. The degrees of performance failure under which reductions of fee, profit, or other incentives will be determined are as follows:


(1) *First Degree.* Performance failures determined, in accordance with applicable law, regulation, or DOE directive, to have resulted in, or that can reasonably be expected to result in, exceptionally grave damage to the national security are first degree. The following are examples:


(i) Non-compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and DOE directives actually resulting in, or creating a risk of, loss, compromise, or unauthorized disclosure of Top Secret Restricted Data or other information classified as Top Secret, any classification level of information in a Special Access Program (SAP), information identified as sensitive compartmented information (SCI), or high risk nuclear weapons-related data.


(ii) Contractor actions that result in a breakdown of the safeguards and security management system that can reasonably be expected to result in the loss, compromise, or unauthorized disclosure of Top Secret Restricted Data, or other information classified as Top Secret, any classification level of information in an SAP, information identified as SCI, or high risk nuclear weapons-related data.


(iii) Failure to promptly report the loss, compromise, or unauthorized disclosure of Top Secret Restricted Data, or other information classified as Top Secret, any classification level of information in an SAP, information identified as SCI, or high risk nuclear weapons-related data.


(iv) Failure to timely implement corrective actions stemming from the loss, compromise, or unauthorized disclosure of Top Secret Restricted Data or other information classified as Top Secret, any classification level of information in a SAP, information identified as SCI, or high risk nuclear weapons-related data.


(2) *Second Degree.* Performance failures determined, in accordance with applicable law, DOE regulation, or directive, to have actually resulted in, or that can reasonably be expected to result in, serious damage to the national security are second degree. The following are examples:


(i) Non-compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and DOE directives actually resulting in, or creating risk of, loss, compromise, or unauthorized disclosure of Secret Restricted Data or other information classified as Secret.


(ii) Contractor actions that result in a breakdown of the safeguards and security management system that can reasonably be expected to result in the loss, compromise, or unauthorized disclosure of Secret Restricted Data or other information classified as Secret.


(iii) Failure to promptly report the loss, compromise, or unauthorized disclosure of Secret Restricted Data or other classified information regardless of classification (except for information covered by paragraph (f)(1)(iii) of this clause).


(iv) Failure to timely implement corrective actions stemming from the loss, compromise, or unauthorized disclosure of Secret Restricted Data or other classified information classified as Secret.


(3) *Third Degree.* Performance failures determined, in accordance with applicable law, regulation, or DOE directive, to have actually resulted in, or that can reasonably be expected to result in, undue risk to the common defense and security are third degree. This category also includes performance failures that result from a lack of Contractor management and/or employee attention to the proper safeguarding of Restricted Data and other classified information. These performance failures may be indicators of future more severe performance failures and/or conditions that if identified and corrected early would prevent serious incidents. The following are examples:


(i) Non-compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and DOE directives actually resulting in, or creating risk of, loss, compromise, or unauthorized disclosure of Restricted Data or other information classified as Confidential.


(ii) Failure to promptly report alleged or suspected violations of laws, regulations, or directives pertaining to the safeguarding of Restricted Data or other classified information.


(iii) Failure to identify or timely execute corrective actions to mitigate or eliminate identified vulnerabilities and reduce residual risk relating to the protection of Restricted Data or other classified information in accordance with the Contractor's Safeguards and Security Plan or other security plan, as applicable.


(iv) Contractor actions that result in performance failures that by themselves pose minor risk, but when viewed in the aggregate indicate degradation in the integrity of the Contractor's safeguards and security management system relating to the protection of Restricted Data and other classified information.



---

[N] [89 FR 89791, Nov. 13, 2024]












