# ยง 40.217   Repackaging.

Where a manufacturer of tobacco products desires to repackage, outside the factory, tobacco products on which the tax has been determined or which were removed for a tax-exempt purpose or transferred in bond to an export warehouse, or to repackage tax determined tobacco products in the factory, he shall make application for authorization to do so, in duplicate, to the appropriate TTB officer. The application shall set forth the location and the number of packages, a description of the contents, the tax status of the tobacco products the reason for wanting to repackage the products (e.g., packages soiled, damaged, or otherwise in a condition making the product unsalable), and a description of the package to be used for repackaging. The packages to be used must comply with the package, mark, and notice provisions of this chapter applicable to the tobacco products being repackaged. The operations authorized under this section are limited solely to repackaging for good cause by a manufacturer, pursuant to an approved application, of the specified tobacco products in the described packages, and do not include any manufacturing processes. If the appropriate TTB officer approves the application, he may assign an appropriate TTB officer to supervise the repackaging or he may authorize the manufacturer to repackage the products without supervision by so stating on a copy of the application returned to the manufacturer. Where the manufacturer is authorized to repackage he shall record the date of repackaging on the approved application and retain it as part of his records.



---

[N] [T.D. 6871, 31 FR 36, Jan. 4, 1966. Redesignated at 40 FR 16835, Apr. 15, 1975, and amended by T.D. ATF-232, 51 FR 28082, Aug. 5, 1986; T.D. ATF-243, 51 FR 43194, Dec. 1, 1986]




