# § 86.1113-87   Calculation and payment of penalty.

(a) The NCP for each engine or vehicle for which a compliance level has been determined under § 86.1112-87 is calculated according to the formula in paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section depending on the value of the compliance level. Each formula contains an annual adjustment factor (AAF_i_) which is defined in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. Other terms in the formulas are defined in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.


(1) If the compliance level (CL) is greater than the standard and less than or equal to X (e.g., point CL_1_ in figure 1), then:


(2) If the compliance level is greater than X and less than or equal to the upper limit as determined by § 86.1104-87 (e.g., point CL_2_ in figure 1), then:


(3) AAF_i_ has the following values:


(i) If frac_i−1_ = 0, then AAF_i_ = 1 + I_i−1_

(ii) If frac_i−1_ >0, then:


(iii) AAF_1_ = 1


(iv) In calculating the NCP for year n, the value frac_i−1_ for i = n will include actual NCP usage through March 31 of model year n-1 and EPA's estimate of additional usage for the remainder of model year n-1 using manufacturer input. All manufacturers using NCPs must report by subclass actual NCP and non-NCP production numbers through March 31, an estimate of NCP and non-NCP production for the remainder of the model year, and the previous year's actual NCP and non-NCP production to EPA no later than April 30 of the model year. If EPA is unable to obtain similar information from manufacturers not using NCPs, EPA will use projected sales data from the manufacturers' application for certification in computing the total production of the subclass and the frac_i−1_. The value of frac_i−1_ will be corrected to reflect actual year-end usage of NCPs and a corrected AAF will be used to establish NCPs in future years. The correction of previous year's AAF will not affect the previous year's penalty.


(4) The terms in the above formulas have the following meanings and values, which may be determined separately for each subclass and pollutant for which an NCP is offered. The production of Federal and California designated engines or vehicles shall be combined for the purpose of this section in calculating the NCP for each engine or vehicle.


(5) The values of COC_50_, COC_90_, MC_50_ and F will be determined for each applicable subclass by EPA based on the cost data used by EPA in setting the applicable emission standard. However, where the rulemaking to establish a specific NCP occurs after the rulemaking to establish the standard, EPA may augment the data base used to establish the standard by including the best cost and emission performance data available to EPA during the specific NCP rulemaking.


(6) In calculating the NCP, appropriate values of the following predefined terms should be used: CL, S, UL, F, and A_i_. For all other terms, unrounded values of at least five figures beyond the decimal point should be used in calculations leading up to the penalty amount. Any NCP calculated under paragraph (a) of this section will be rounded to the nearest dollar.


(b) The NCP determined in paragraph (a) of this section is assessed against all those engines or vehicles of the nonconforming configuration or engine family produced at all assembly plants and distributed into commerce—


(1) Since the beginning of the model year in the case of a certification failure described by § 86.1106-87(a).


(2) Beginning ten days after an SEA failure described by § 86.1106-87 (b) or (c).


(3) Following implementation of a production running change described by § 86.1106-87(d).


(c) The NCP will continue to be assessed during the model year, until such time, if any, that the configuration or engine family is brought into conformance with applicable emission standards.


(d) A manufacturer may carry over an NCP from a model year to the next model year. There is no limit to the number of years that carryover can continue. The amount of the penalty will increase each year according to paragraph (a) of this section.


(e) The Administrator shall notify the manufacturer in writing of the nonconformance penalty established under paragraph (a) of this section after the completion of the PCA under § 86.1112-87.


(f) A manufacturer may request a hearing under 40 CFR part 1068, subpart G, as to whether the compliance level (including a compliance level in excess of the upper limit) was determined properly.


(g)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (g)(2) of this section, the nonconformance penalty or penalties assessed under this subpart must be paid as follows:


(i) By the quarterly due dates, *i.e.,* within 30 days of the end of each calendar quarter (March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31), or according to such other payment schedule as the Administrator may approve pursuant to a manufacturer's request, for all nonconforming engines or vehicles produced by a manufacturer in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section and distributed into commerce for that quarter.


(ii) The penalty shall be payable to U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, NCP Fund, Motor Vehicle and Engine Compliance Program, P.O. Box 979032 St. Louis, MO 63197-9000. Note on the check and supporting information that this is an NCP payment.


(2) When a manufacturer has requested a hearing under § 86.1115-87, it must pay the nonconformance penalty, and any interest, within ten days after the Presiding Officer renders his decision, unless the manufacturer first files a notice of intention to appeal to the Administrator pursuant to § 86.1115-87(t)(1), or, if an appeal of the Presiding Officer's decision is taken, within ten days after the Administrator renders his decision, unless the manufacturer first files a petition for judicial review.


(3) A manufacturer making payment under paragraph (g)(1) or (2) of this section shall submit the following information by each quarterly due date to the Designated Compliance Officer (*see* 40 CFR 1036.801). This information shall be submitted even if a manufacturer has no NCP production in a given quarter.


(i) Corporate identification, identification and quantity of engines or vehicles subject to the NCP, certificate identification (number and date), NCP payment calculations and interest payment calculations, if applicable.


(ii) The following statement and endorsement:


(4) The Administrator may verify the production figures or other documentation submitted under paragraph (g)(3) of this section.


(5)(i) Interest shall be assessed on any nonconformance penalty for which payment has been withheld under § 86.113-87(g) (1) or (2). Interest shall be calculated from the due date for the first quarterly NCP payment, as determined under § 86.1113-87(g)(1), until either the date on which the Presiding Officer or the Administrator renders the final decision of the Agency under § 86.1115-87 or the date when an alternate payment schedule (approved pursuant to § 86.1113-87(g)(1)) ends.


(ii) The combined principal plus interest on each quarterly NCP payment withheld pursuant to § 86.1113-87(g) (1) or (2) shall be calculated according to the formula:


(iii) The number of quarters for which payment is outstanding for purposes of this paragraph shall be the number of quarterly NCP payment due dates, as determined under § 86.1113-87(g)(1), which have elapsed throughout the duration of a hearing request, or alternate payment schedule.


(iv) The interest rate applicable to a quarter for purposes of this paragraph shall be the rate published by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to the Debt Collection Act of 1982 and effective on the date on which the NCP payment was originally due.


(6) A manufacturer will be refunded an overpayment, or be permitted to offset an overpayment by withholding a future payment, if approved in advance by the Administrator. The government shall pay no interest on overpayments.


(h) A manufacturer that certifies as a replacement for the nonconforming configuration, a configuration that is in conformance with applicable standards, and that performs a production compliance audit (PCA) in accordance with § 86.1112-87(a) that results in a compliance level below the applicable standard, will be eligible to receive a refund of a portion of the engineering and development component of the penalty. The engineering and development component will be determined by multiplying the base penalty amount by the engineering and development factor for the appropriate subclass and pollutant in § 86.1105-87. The amount refunded will depend on the model year in which the certification and PCA take place. In cases where payment of penalties have been waived by EPA in accordance with paragraph (g)(1)(iii) of this section, EPA will refund a portion of the engineering and development component. The proportionate refund to be paid by EPA will be based on the proportion of vehicles or engines of the nonconforming configuration for which NCPs were paid to EPA. The refund is calculated as follows:



---

[N] [50 FR 35388, Aug. 30, 1985, as amended at 50 FR 53467, Dec. 31, 1985; 53 FR 19134, May 26, 1988; 55 FR 46629, Nov. 5, 1990; 61 FR 51366, Oct. 2, 1996; 77 FR 54402, Sept. 5, 2012; 81 FR 73981, Oct. 25, 2016]




