# § 1303.2   Definitions.

(a) The definitions in section 3 of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2052) shall apply to this part 1303.


(b) For purposes of this part:


(1) *Paint and other similar surface-coating materials* means a fluid, semi-fluid, or other material, with or without a suspension of finely divided coloring matter, which changes to a solid film when a thin layer is applied to a metal, wood, stone, paper, leather, cloth, plastic, or other surface. This term does not include printing inks or those materials which actually become a part of the substrate, such as the pigment in a plastic article, or those materials which are actually bonded to the substrate, such as by electroplating or ceramic glazing.


(2) *Lead-containing paint* means paint or other similar surface coating materials containing lead or lead compounds and in which the lead content (calculated as lead metal) is in excess of 0.06 percent (0.06 percent is reduced to 0.009 percent effective August 14, 2009) by weight of the total nonvolatile content of the paint or the weight of the dried paint film.


(3) *Toys and other articles intended for use by children* means those toys and other articles which are intended to be entrusted to or for use by children. This would not include all articles to which children might have access simply because they are present in a household.


(4) *Furniture article* means those movable articles: (i) Used to support people or things; (ii) other functional or decorative furniture articles, including, but not limited to, products such as beds, bookcases, chairs, chests, tables, dressers, desks, pianos, console televisions, and sofas. The term “furniture article” does not include appliances, such as ranges, refrigerators, dishwashers, clothes washers and dryers, air conditioners, humidifiers, and dehumidifiers; fixtures such as bathroom fixtures, built-in cabinets, chandeliers, windows, and doors; or household items such as window shades, venetian blinds, or wall hangings and draperies.



---

[N] [42 FR 44199, Sept. 1, 1977, as amended at 73 FR 77493, Dec. 19, 2008]




