# § 11.501   Grades and types of national engineer endorsements issued.

(a) National engineer endorsements are issued in the grades of—


(1) Chief Engineer;


(2) First Assistant Engineer;


(3) Second Assistant Engineer;


(4) Third Assistant Engineer;


(5) Chief Engineer-Limited;


(6) Assistant Engineer-Limited;


(7) Designated Duty Engineer (DDE);


(8) Chief Engineer Uninspected Fishing Industry Vessels;


(9) Assistant Engineer Uninspected Fishing Industry Vessels;


(10) Chief Engineer-MODU;


(11) Assistant Engineer-MODU;


(12) Chief Engineer-OSV; and


(13) Assistant Engineer-OSV.


(b) Engineer endorsements issued in the grades of Chief Engineer-Limited and Assistant Engineer-Limited of steam, motor, and/or gas turbine-propelled vessels allow the holder to serve within any propulsion power limitations on vessels of unlimited tonnage on inland waters and of less than 1,600 GRT in ocean, near-coastal, or Great Lakes service in the following manner:


(1) Chief Engineer-Limited may serve on oceans and near-coastal waters.


(2) Assistant Engineer-Limited may serve on ocean and near-coastal waters.


(c) Engineer MMC endorsements issued in the grades of Designated Duty Engineer of steam, motor, and/or gas turbine-propelled vessels allow the holder to serve within stated propulsion power limitations on vessels of less than 500 GRT in the following manner:


(1) Designated Duty Engineers-Limited to vessels of less than 1,000 HP or 4,000 HP may serve only on near-coastal or inland waters.


(2) Designated Duty Engineers-Unlimited may serve on any waters.


(d) An engineer officer MMC endorsement authorizes service on steam, motor, or gas turbine-propelled vessels or may authorize all modes of propulsion.


(e) A person holding an engineer MMC endorsement that is restricted to near-coastal waters may serve within the limitations of the MMC upon near-coastal, Great Lakes, and inland waters.



---

[N] [USCG-2021-0097, 89 FR 93092, Nov. 25, 2024, as amended by USCG-2021-0834, 89 FR 102336, Dec. 17, 2024]






