# § 1106.2   Definitions.

The following definitions apply to this part:


*Act* means the ICC Termination Act of 1995, Pub. L. 104-88, 109 Stat. 803 (1995). 


*Amalgamation of operations,* as defined by the Federal Railroad Administration at 49 CFR 244.9, means the migration, combination, or unification of one set of railroad operations with another set of railroad operations, including, but not limited to, the allocation of resources affecting railroad operations (*e.g.,* changes in personnel, track, bridges, or communication or signal systems; or use or deployment of maintenance-of-way equipment, locomotives, or freight or passenger cars). 


*Applicant* means a Class I railroad or a Class II railroad engaging in a transaction subject to this part. 


*Board* means the Surface Transportation Board. 


*Class I or Class II railroad* has the meaning assigned by the Board's regulations (49 CFR part 1201; General Instructions 1-1), as those regulations may be revised by the Board (including modifications in class thresholds based on the revenue deflator formula) from time to time. 


*Environmental documentation* means either an Environmental Assessment or an Environmental Impact Statement prepared in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act and Board's environmental rules at 49 CFR part 1105. 


*Federal Railroad Administration* (“FRA”) means the agency within the Department of Transportation responsible for railroad safety. 


*Office of Environmental Analysis* (“OEA”) means the Office that prepares the Board's environmental documents and analyses.


*Safety Integration Plan* (“SIP”) means a comprehensive written plan, prepared in accordance with FRA guidelines or regulations, explaining the process by which Applicants intend to integrate the operation of the properties involved in a manner that would maintain safety at every step of the integration process, in the event the Board approves the transaction that requires a SIP.


*Transaction* means an application by a Class I railroad that proposes to consolidate with, merge with, or acquire control under 49 U.S.C. 11323(a) of another Class I railroad, or with a Class II railroad where there is a proposed amalgamation of operations, as defined by FRA's regulations at 49 CFR 244.9. “Transaction” also includes a proceeding other than those specified above if the Board concludes that a SIP is necessary in its proper consideration of the application or other request for authority.



---

[N] [67 FR 11607, Mar. 15, 2002, as amended at 83 FR 15078, Apr. 9, 2018]




