# ยง 238.11   Transactions requiring Board approval.

The following transactions require the Board's prior approval under section 10 of HOLA except as exempted under ยง 238.12:


(a) *Formation of savings and loan holding company.* Any action that causes a savings association or other company to become a savings and loan holding company.


(b) *Acquisition of subsidiary savings association.* Any action that causes a savings association to become a subsidiary of a savings and loan holding company.


(c) *Acquisition of control of savings association or savings and loan holding company securities.* (1) The acquisition by a savings and loan holding company of direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting securities of a savings association or savings and loan holding company, that is not a subsidiary, if the acquisition results in the company's control of more than 5 percent of the outstanding shares of any class of voting securities of the savings association or savings and loan holding company.


(2) An acquisition includes the purchase of additional securities through the exercise of preemptive rights, but does not include securities received in a stock dividend or stock split that does not alter the savings and loan holding company's proportional share of any class of voting securities.


(3) In the case of a multiple savings and loan holding company, acquisition of direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting securities of a savings association or savings and loan holding company, that is not a subsidiary, if the acquisition results in the company's control of more than 5 percent of the outstanding shares of any class of voting securities of the savings association or savings and loan holding company that is engaged in any business activity other than those specified in ยง 238.51 of this part.


(d) *Acquisition of savings association or savings and loan holding company assets.* The acquisition by a savings and loan holding company or by a subsidiary thereof (other than a savings association) of all or substantially all of the assets of a savings association, or savings and loan holding company.


(e) *Merger of savings and loan holding companies.* The merger or consolidation of savings and loan holding companies, and the acquisition of a savings association through a merger or consolidation.


(f) *Acquisition of control by certain individuals.* The acquisition, by a director or officer of a savings and loan holding company, or by any individual who owns, controls, or holds the power to vote (or holds proxies representing) more than 25 percent of the voting shares of such savings and loan holding company, of control of any savings association that is not a subsidiary of such savings and loan holding company.




