# § 423.562   General provisions.

(a) *Responsibilities of the Part D plan sponsor.* A Part D plan sponsor must meet all of the following requirements.


(1) A Part D plan sponsor, for each Part D plan that it offers, must establish and maintain—


(i) A grievance procedure as described in § 423.564 for addressing issues that do not involve coverage determinations;


(ii) Use a single, uniform exceptions and appeals process which includes procedures for accepting oral and written requests for coverage determinations and redeterminations that are in accordance with § 423.128(b)(7) and (d)(1)(iv).


(iii) A procedure for making timely coverage determinations, including determinations on requests for exceptions to a tiered cost-sharing structure or to a formulary; and


(iv) Appeal procedures that meet the requirements of this subpart for issues that involve coverage determinations.


(v) Appeal procedures that meet the requirements of this subpart for issues that involve at-risk determinations. Determinations made in accordance with the processes at § 423.153(f) are collectively referred to as an at-risk determination, defined at § 423.560, made under a drug management program.


(2) A Part D plan sponsor must ensure that all enrollees receive written information about the—


(i) Grievance and appeal procedures that are available to them through the Part D plan sponsor; and


(ii) Complaint process available to the enrollee under the QIO process as set forth under section 1154(a)(14) of the Act.


(3) A Part D plan sponsor must arrange with its network pharmacies to distribute notices instructing enrollees how to contact their plans to obtain a coverage determination or request an exception. These notices must comply with the standards established in § 423.128(b)(7)(iii).


(4) In accordance with subpart K of this part, if the Part D plan sponsor delegates any of its responsibilities under this subpart to another entity or individual through which the Part D plan sponsor provides covered benefits, the Part D plan sponsor is ultimately responsible for ensuring that the entity or individual satisfies the relevant requirements of this subpart.


(5) A Part D plan sponsor must employ a medical director who is responsible for ensuring the clinical accuracy of all coverage determinations and redeterminations involving medical necessity. The medical director must be a physician with a current and unrestricted license to practice medicine in a State, Territory, Commonwealth of the United States (that is, Puerto Rico), or the District of Columbia.


(b) *Rights of enrollees.* In accordance with the provisions of this subpart, enrollees have all of the following rights under Part D plans:


(1) The right to have grievances between the enrollee and the Part D plan sponsor heard and resolved by the plan sponsor, as described in § 423.564.


(2) The right to a timely coverage determination by the Part D plan sponsor, as specified in § 423.566 and § 423.568, including the right to request from the Part D plan sponsor an exception to its tiered cost-sharing structure or formulary, as specified in § 423.578.


(3) The right to request from the Part D plan sponsor an expedited coverage determination, as specified in § 423.570.


(4) If dissatisfied with any part of a coverage determination or an at-risk determination under a drug management program in accordance with § 423.153(f), all of the following appeal rights:


(i) The right to a redetermination of the adverse coverage determination or at-risk determination by the Part D plan sponsor, as specified in § 423.580.


(ii) The right to request an expedited redetermination, as provided under § 423.584.


(iii) If, as a result of the redetermination, a Part D plan sponsor affirms, in whole or in part, its adverse coverage determination or at-risk determination, the right to a reconsideration or expedited reconsideration by an independent review entity (IRE) contracted by CMS, as specified in § 423.600.


(iv) If the IRE affirms the plan's adverse coverage determination or at-risk determination, in whole or in part, the right to an ALJ hearing if the amount in controversy meets the requirements in § 423.2006.


(v) If the ALJ or attorney adjudicator affirms the IRE's adverse coverage determination or at-risk determination, in whole or in part, the right to request Council review of the ALJ's or attorney adjudicator's decision, as specified in § 423.2100.


(vi) If the Council affirms the ALJ's or attorney adjudicator's adverse coverage determination or at-risk determination, in whole or in part, the right to judicial review of the decision if the amount in controversy meets the requirements in § 423.2006.


(c) *When other regulations apply.* Unless this subpart provides otherwise, the regulations in part 422, subpart M of this chapter (concerning the administrative review and hearing processes under titles II and XVIII, and representation of parties under title XVIII of the Act) and any interpretive rules or CMS rulings issued under these regulations, apply under this subpart to the extent they are appropriate.


(d) *Relation to ERISA Requirements.* Consistent with section 1860D-22(b) of the Act, provisions of this subpart may, to the extent applicable under the regulations adopted by the Secretary of Labor, apply to claims for benefits under group health plans subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act.



---

[N] [70 FR 4525, Jan. 28, 2005, as amended at 74 FR 65363, Dec. 9, 2009; 76 FR 21575, Apr. 15, 2011; 80 FR 7965, Feb. 12, 2015; 82 FR 5125, Jan. 17, 2017; 83 FR 16751, Apr. 16, 2018; 84 FR 19872, May 7, 2019; 89 FR 30841, Apr. 23, 2024]






