# § 201.15   U.S. flag vessel shipping requirements.

(a) *General requirements.* Unless USAID determines that privately owned U.S. flag commercial ocean vessels are not available at fair and reasonable rates for such vessels: 


(1) At least fifty percent (50%) of the gross tonnage (computed separately for dry bulk carriers, dry cargo liners, and tankers from each of two geographic areas—the U.S. and all other countries) of all goods financed by USAID which are transported on ocean vessels shall be transported on privately owned U.S. flag commercial vessels; and 


(2) At least fifty percent (50%) of the gross freight revenue generated by all shipments of USAID-financed commodities which are transported to the territory of the borrower/grantee on dry cargo liners shall be paid to or for the benefit of privately owned U.S. flag commercial vessels. 


(b) *Methods of compliance.* (1) Compliance with these requirements with respect to dry cargo liner vessels shall be achieved for the total of liner shipments made during the term of the loan or grant agreement. If USAID determines at any time during the term of the agreement that compliance may not be achieved, USAID may require that all subsequent shipments be made on U.S. flag liners until compliance is assured. 


(2) Compliance with these requirements with respect to dry bulk carriers and tankers shall be achieved for each quantitative unit of cargo. A quantitative unit of cargo is the total tonnage of a commodity or commodities included in one invitation for bids or other solicitation of offers from ocean carriers for the transportation of cargo which may move in full shipload lots. USAID shall approve a charter or other contract of affreightment for a non-U.S. flag vessel only if USAID has determined that at least 50% of the quantitative unit will move on U.S. flag vessels, to the extent that such vessels are available at fair and reasonable rates for such vessels. U.S. flag dry cargo liners whose offers are responsive to the terms of the invitation for bids or other solicitation of vessels may be used for achieving compliance for the quantitative unit. 


(c) *Nonavailability of U.S. flag vessels.* Upon application of the borrower/grantee or the supplier, USAID/W, Office of Procurement, Transportation Division, shall determine and advise the applicant whether or not privately owned U.S. flag vessels are available for any specific shipment of commodities at fair and reasonable rates. A determination that U.S. flag vessels are not available does not carry with it the authorization for USAID to finance freight on a vessel not otherwise authorized; this requires a separate waiver approval in accordance with § 201.13(b)(1)(ii). 


(d) *Responsibility.* The borrower/grantee is responsible for compliance with the requirements of this section and for imposing upon subborrowers, contractors and importers such requirements regarding shipping arrangements with suppliers as will assure discharge of this responsibility. 


(e) *Privately owned U.S. flag commercial vessels.* For purposes of this section the term “privately owned U.S. flag commercial vessels” shall not include any vessel which, subsequent to September 21, 1961, shall have been either built outside the U.S., rebuilt outside the U.S. or documented under any foreign registry until such vessel shall have been documented under the laws of the U.S. for a period of 3 years.




