# § 151.35   Airport development and facilities to which subparts B and C apply.

(a) Subparts B and C applies to the following kinds of airport development: 


(1) Any work involved in constructing, improving, or repairing a public airport or part thereof, including the constructing, altering, or repairing of only those buildings or parts thereof that are intended to house facilities or activities directly related to the safety of persons at the airport. 


(2) Removing, lowering, relocating, marking, and lighting of airport hazards as defined in § 151.39(b). 


(3) Acquiring land or an interest therein, or any easement through or other interest in air space, that is necessary to allow any work covered by paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section, or to remove or mitigate, or prevent or limit the establishment of, airport hazards as defined in § 151.39(b). 


(b) The airport facilities to which subparts B and C applies are those structures, runways, or other items, on or at an airport, that are—


(1) Used or intended to be used, in connection with the landing, takeoff, or maneuvering of aircraft, or for or in connection with operating and maintaining the airport itself; or 


(2) Required to be located at the airport for use by the users of its aeronautical facilities or by airport operators, concessionaires, and other users of the airport in connection with providing services or commodities to the users of those aeronautical facilities. 


(c) For the purposes of subparts B and C, “public airport” means an airport used for public purposes, under the control of a public agency named in § 151.37(a), with a publicly owned landing area. 



---

[N] [Doc. No. 1329, 27 FR 12351, Dec. 13, 1962, as amended by Amdt. 151-8, 30 FR 8040, June 23, 1965]




