# 452.204-71   Personal Identity Verification of Contractor Employees.

As prescribed in AGAR 404.1303, insert the following clause:


(a) The contractor shall comply with the personal identity verification (PIV) policies and procedures established by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Directives 4620-002 series.


(b) Should the USDA Directives 4620-002 require the exclusion of a contractor's employee, the contracting officer will notify the contractor in writing. The contractor must appoint a representative to manage compliance with the PIV policies established by the USDA Directives 4620-002 and to maintain a list of employees eligible for a USDA LincPass required for performance of the work.


(c) The responsibility of maintaining a sufficient workforce remains with the contractor. Contractor employees may be barred by the Government from performance of work should they be found ineligible or to have lost eligibility for a USDA LincPass. Failure to maintain a sufficient workforce of employees eligible for a USDA LincPass may be grounds for termination of the contract.


(d) The contractor shall insert this clause in all subcontracts when the subcontractor is required to have routine unaccompanied physical access to a Federally controlled facility and/or routine unaccompanied access to a Federally controlled information system.


(e) The PIV Sponsor for this contract is a designated program point of contact, which in most cases is the COR, unless otherwise specified in this contract. The PIV Sponsor will be available to receive contractor identity information from [hours and days to be added by CO] to [hours and days to be added by CO] at [office address for registration to be added by CO]. The Government will notify the contractor if there is a change in the PIV Sponsor, the office address, or the office hours for registration; however, it is the contractor's responsibility to meet all aspects of paragraphs (c), (d), and (e).


