# § 229.1112   (Item 1112) Significant obligors of pool assets.

(a) *Descriptive information.* Provide the following information for each significant obligor:


(1) The name of the obligor.


(2) The organizational form and general character of the business of the obligor.


(3) The nature of the concentration of the pool assets with the obligor.


(4) The material terms of the pool assets and the agreements with the obligor involving the pool assets.


(b) *Financial information.* (1) If the pool assets relating to a significant obligor represent 10% or more, but less than 20%, of the asset pool, provide summarized financial information, as defined by § 210.1-02(bb) of this chapter (Rule 1-02(bb) of Regulation S-X), for the significant obligor for each of the last three fiscal years (or the life of the significant obligor and its predecessors, if less), provided, however, that for a significant obligor under § 229.1101(k)(2) (Item 1101(k)(2) of Regulation AB), only net operating income for the most recent fiscal year and interim period is required. 


(2) If pool assets relating to a significant obligor represent 20% or more of the asset pool, provide financial statements meeting the requirements of §§ 210.1-01 through 210.13-02 (Regulation S-X) of this chapter, except §§ 210.3-05 (Rule 3-05) and 210.11-01 through 210.11-03 (Article 11 of Regulation S-X) of this chapter, of the significant obligor. Financial statements of such obligor and its subsidiaries consolidated (as required by § 240.14a-3(b) of this chapter) shall be filed under this item.



---

[N] [70 FR 1597, Jan. 7, 2005, as amended at 79 FR 57313, Sept. 24, 2014; 85 FR 22003, Apr. 20, 2020; 86 FR 2129, Jan. 11, 2021]




