# § 107.801   Purpose and scope.

(a) This subpart prescribes procedures for—


(1) A person who seeks approval to be an independent inspection agency to perform tests, inspections, verifications and certifications of DOT specification cylinders or UN pressure receptacles as required by parts 178 and 180 of this chapter;


(2) A person who seeks approval to engage in the requalification (*e.g.* inspection, testing, or certification), rebuilding, or repair of a cylinder manufactured in accordance with a DOT specification or a pressure receptacle in accordance with a UN standard under subchapter C of this chapter or under the terms of a special permit issued under this part, or a cylinder or tube manufactured in accordance with a TC, CTC, CRC, or BTC specification under the Transport Canada TDG Regulations (IBR; *see* § 171.7 of this chapter);


(3) A person who seeks approval to perform the manufacturing chemical analyses and tests of DOT specification cylinders, special permit cylinders, or UN pressure receptacles outside the United States.


(b) No person may engage in a function identified in paragraph (a) of this section unless approved by the Associate Administrator in accordance with the provisions of this subpart. Each person must comply with the applicable requirements in this subpart. In addition, the procedural requirements in subpart H of this part apply to the filing, processing, and termination of an approval issued under this subpart.



---

[N] [67 FR 51639, Aug. 8, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 33873, June 12, 2006; 78 FR 60750, Oct. 2, 2013; 82 FR 15832, Mar. 30, 2017]




