# § 231.9   Tank cars without end sills.

(a) *Hand brakes*—(1) *Number.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(a)(1)).


(2) *Dimensions.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(a)(2)).


(3) *Location.* Each hand brake shall be so located that it can be safely operated while car is in motion. The brake shaft shall be located on end of car to the left of center.


(4) *Manner of application.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(a)(4)).


(b) *Brake step.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(b)).


(c) *Running boards*—(1) *Number.* One.


(2) *Dimensions.* Minimum width on sides, 10 inches. Minimum width on ends, 6 inches.


(3) *Location.* Continuous around sides and ends of tank.


(4) *Manner of application.* (i) If running boards are applied below center of tank, outside edge of running boards shall extend not less than 7 inches beyond bulge of tank.


(ii) Running boards at ends of car shall be not less than 6 inches from a point vertically above the inside face of knuckle when closed with coupler horn against the buffer block, end sill or back stop.


(iii) Running boards shall be securely fastened to tank or tank bands.


(d) *Sill steps*—(1) *Number.* Four. (If tank has high running boards, making ladders necessary, sill steps must meet ladder requirements.)


(2) *Dimensions.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(d)(2)).


(3) *Location.* (i) One near each end on each side, flush with outside edge of running board as near end of car as practicable.


(ii) Tread not more than 24, preferably not more than 22, inches above the top of rail.


(iii) Carriers are not required to change the location of handholds on cars in service July 1, 1911, where the appliances are within 3 inches of the required location, except that when cars undergo regular repairs they must then be made to comply with the standards prescribed.


(4) *Manner of application.* (i) Steps exceeding 18 inches in depth shall have an additional tread and be laterally braced.


(ii) Sill steps shall be securely fastened with not less than 
1/2-inch bolts with nuts outside (when possible) and, riveted over, or with 
1/2-inch rivets.


(e) *Side handholds*—(1) *Number.* Four or more.


(2) *Dimensions.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(h)(2)).


(3) *Location*—(i) *Horizontal,* one near each end on each side of car over sill step on running board, not more than 2 inches back from outside edge of running board, projecting downward or outward.


(ii) Where such side handholds are more than 18 inches from end of car, an additional handhold must be placed near each end on each side not more than 30 inches above center line of coupler.


(iii) Clearance of outer end of handhold shall be not more than 12 inches from end of car.


(iv) If safety railings are on tank, four additional vertical handholds shall be applied, one over each sill step on tank.


(v) Carriers are not required to change the location of handholds on cars in service July 1, 1911, except end handholds under end sills, where the appliances are within 3 inches of the required location, except that when cars undergo regular repairs they must then be made to comply with the standards prescribed.


(4) *Manner of application.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(h)(4)).


(f) *End handholds*—(1) *Number.* Four.


(2) *Dimensions.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(i)(2)).


(3) *Location.* (i) Horizontal, one near each side on each end of car on running board, not more than 2 inches back from edge of running board projecting downward or outward, or on end of tank not more than 30 inches above center line of coupler.


(ii) Carriers are not required to change the location of handholds on cars in service July 1, 1911, except end handholds under end sills, where the appliances are within 3 inches of the required location, except that when cars undergo regular repairs they must then be made to comply with the standards prescribed.


(4) *Manner of application.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(i)(4)).


(g) *Safety railings*—(1) *Number.* One.


(2) *Dimensions.* Minimum diameter, seven-eighths of an inch, wrought iron or steel. Minimum clearance, 2
1/2 inches.


(3) *Location.* Safety railings shall be continuous around sides and ends of car, not less than 30 nor more than 60 inches above running board.


(4) *Manner of application.* Safety railings shall be securely fastened to tank or tank bands, and secured against end shifting.


(h) *Uncoupling levers*—(1) *Number.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(k)(1)).


(2) *Dimensions.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(k)(2)), except that minimum length of uncoupling lever shall be 42 inches, measured from center line of end of car to handle of lever.


(3) *Location.* Same as specified for “Box and other house cars” (see § 231.1(k)(3)), except that uncoupling lever shall be not more than 30 inches above center line of coupler.


(i) *End-ladder clearance.* (1) No part of car above buffer block within 30 inches from side of car, except brake shaft, brake-shaft brackets, brake wheel or uncoupling lever shall extend to within 12 inches of a vertical plane parallel with end of car and passing through the inside face of knuckle when closed with coupler horn against the buffer block or back stop, and no other part of end of car or fixtures on same, above buffer block, other than exceptions herein noted, shall extend beyond the face of buffer block.


(2) Carriers are not required to make changes to secure additional end-ladder clearance on cars in service July 1, 1911, that have 10 or more inches end-ladder clearance, within 30 inches of side of car, until car is shopped for work amounting to practically rebuilding body of car, at which time they must be made to comply with the standards prescribed.




