# § 412.606   Patient assessments.

(a) *Patient assessment instrument.* An inpatient rehabilitation facility must use the CMS inpatient rehabilitation facility patient assessment instrument to assess Medicare Part A fee-for-service and Medicare Part C (Medicare Advantage) inpatients who are admitted on or after January 1, 2002, or were admitted before January 1, 2002, and are still inpatients as of January 1, 2002.


(1) Starting on October 1, 2024, inpatient rehabilitation facilities must use the CMS inpatient rehabilitation facility patient assessment instrument to assess all inpatients, regardless of payer, who are admitted on or after October 1, 2024, or who were admitted before October 1, 2024 and are still inpatients as of October 1, 2024.


(2) [Reserved]


(b) *Comprehensive assessments.* (1) A clinician of the inpatient rehabilitation facility must perform a comprehensive, accurate, standardized, and reproducible assessment of each Medicare Part A fee-for-service inpatient using the inpatient rehabilitation facility patient assessment instrument specified in paragraph (b) of this section as part of his or her patient assessment in accordance with the schedule described in § 412.610. IRFs must also complete a patient assessment instrument in accordance with § 412.606 for each Medicare Part C (Medicare Advantage) patient admitted to or discharged from an IRF on or after October 1, 2009. In addition, IRFs must complete a patient assessment instrument in accordance with § 412.606 for all other patients, regardless of payer, admitted to or discharged from an IRF on or after October 1, 2024.

 




(2) A clinician employed or contracted by an inpatient rehabilitation facility who is trained on how to perform a patient assessment using the inpatient rehabilitation facility patient assessment instrument specified in paragraph (b) of the section must record appropriate and applicable data accurately and completely for each item on the patient assessment instrument. 


(3) The assessment process must include— 


(i) Direct patient observation and communication with the patient; and 


(ii) When appropriate and to the extent feasible, patient data from the patient's physician(s), family, someone personally knowledgeable about the patient's clinical condition or capabilities, the patient's clinical record, and other sources. 



---

[N] [66 FR 41388, Aug. 7, 2001, as amended at 74 FR 39810, Aug. 7, 2009; 83 FR 38573, Aug. 6, 2018; 87 FR 47090, Aug. 1, 2022]




