# § 1926.1052   Stairways.

(a) *General.* The following requirements apply to all stairways as indicated:


(1) Stairways that will not be a permanent part of the structure on which construction work is being performed shall have landings of not less than 30 inches (76 cm) in the direction of travel and extend at least 22 inches (56 cm) in width at every 12 feet (3.7 m) or less of vertical rise.


(2) Stairs shall be installed between 30° and 50° from horizontal.


(3) Riser height and tread depth shall be uniform within each flight of stairs, including any foundation structure used as one or more treads of the stairs. Variations in riser height or tread depth shall not be over 
1/4-inch (0.6 cm) in any stairway system.


(4) Where doors or gates open directly on a stairway, a platform shall be provided, and the swing of the door shall not reduce the effective width of the platform to less than 20 inches (51 cm).


(5) Metal pan landings and metal pan treads, when used, shall be secured in place before filling with concrete or other material.


(6) All parts of stairways shall be free of hazardous projections, such as protruding nails.


(7) Slippery conditions on stairways shall be eliminated before the stairways are used to reach other levels.


(b) *Temporary service.* The following requirements apply to all stairways as indicated:


(1) Except during stairway construction, foot traffic is prohibited on stairways with pan stairs where the treads and/or landings are to be filled in with concrete or other material at a later date, unless the stairs are temporarily fitted with wood or other solid material at least to the top edge of each pan. Such temporary treads and landings shall be replaced when worn below the level of the top edge of the pan.


(2) Except during stairway construction, foot traffic is prohibited on skeleton metal stairs where permanent treads and/or landings are to be installed at a later date, unless the stairs are fitted with secured temporary treads and landings long enough to cover the entire tread and/or landing area.


(3) Treads for temporary service shall be made of wood or other solid material, and shall be installed the full width and depth of the stair.


(c) *Stairrails and handrails.* The following requirements apply to all stairways as indicated:


(1) Stairways having four or more risers or rising more than 30 inches (76 cm), whichever is less, shall be equipped with:


(i) At least one handrail; and


(ii) One stairrail system along each unprotected side or edge.


(2) Winding and spiral stairways shall be equipped with a handrail offset sufficiently to prevent walking on those portions of the stairways where the tread width is less than 6 inches (15 cm).


(3) The height of stairrails shall be as follows:


(i) Stairrails installed after March 15, 1991, shall be not less than 36 inches (91.5 cm) from the upper surface of the stairrail system to the surface of the tread, in line with the face of the riser at the forward edge of the tread.


(ii) Stairrails installed before March 15, 1991, shall be not less than 30 inches (76 cm) nor more than 34 inches (86 cm) from the upper surface of the stairrail system to the surface of the tread, in line with the face of the riser at the forward edge of the tread.


(4) Midrails, screens, mesh, intermediate vertical members, or equivalent intermediate structural members, shall be provided between the top rail of the stairrail system and the stairway steps.


(i) Midrails, when used, shall be located at a height midway between the top edge of the stairrail system and the stairway steps.


(ii) Screens or mesh, when used, shall extend from the top rail to the stairway step, and along the entire opening between top rail supports.


(iii) When intermediate vertical members, such as balusters, are used between posts, they shall be not more than 19 inches (48 cm) apart.


(iv) Other structural members, when used, shall be installed such that there are no openings in the stairrail system that are more than 19 inches (48 cm) wide.


(5) Handrails and the top rails of stairrail systems shall be capable of withstanding, without failure, a force of at least 200 pounds (890 n) applied within 2 inches (5 cm) of the top edge, in any downward or outward direction, at any point along the top edge.


(6) The height of handrails shall be not more than 37 inches (94 cm) nor less than 30 inches (76 cm) from the upper surface of the handrail to the surface of the tread, in line with the face of the riser at the forward edge of the tread.


(7) When the top edge of a stairrail system also serves as a handrail, the height of the top edge shall be not more than 37 inches (94 cm) nor less than 36 inches (91.5 cm) from the upper surface of the stairrail system to the surface of the tread, in line with the face of the riser at the forward edge of the tread.


(8) Stairrail systems and handrails shall be so surfaced as to prevent injury to employees from punctures or lacerations, and to prevent snagging of clothing.


(9) Handrails shall provide an adequate handhold for employees grasping them to avoid falling.


(10) The ends of stairrail systems and handrails shall be constructed so as not to constitute a projection hazard.


(11) Handrails that will not be a permanent part of the structure being built shall have a minimum clearance of 3 inches (8 cm) between the handrail and walls, stairrail systems, and other objects.


(12) Unprotected sides and edges of stairway landings shall be provided with guardrail systems. Guardrail system criteria are contained in subpart M of this part.



---

[N] [55 FR 47687, Nov. 14, 1990; 56 FR 2585, Jan. 23, 1991; 56 FR 5061, Feb. 7, 1991; 56 FR 41794, Aug. 23, 1991]




