# 16.203-4   Contract clauses.

(a) *Adjustment based on established prices—standard supplies.* (1) The contracting officer shall, when contracting by negotiation, insert the clause at 52.216-2, Economic Price Adjustment—Standard Supplies, or an agency-prescribed clause as authorized in subparagraph (2) below, in solicitations and contracts when all of the following conditions apply:


(i) A fixed-price contract is contemplated.


(ii) The requirement is for standard supplies that have an established catalog or market price.


(iii) The contracting officer has made the determination specified in 16.203-3.


(2) If all the conditions in subparagraph (a)(1) above apply and the contracting officer determines that the use of the clause at 52.216-2 is inappropriate, the contracting officer may use an agency-prescribed clause instead of the clause at 52.216-2.


(3) If the negotiated unit price reflects a net price after applying a trade discount from a catalog or list price, the contracting officer shall document in the contract file both the catalog or list price and the discount. (This does not apply to prompt payment or cash discounts.)


(4) The contracting officer may modify the clause by increasing the 10 percent limit on aggregate increases specified in 52.216-2(c)(1), upon approval by the chief of the contracting office.


(b) *Adjustment based on established prices—semistandard supplies.* (1) The contracting officer shall, when contracting by negotiation, insert the clause at 52.216-3, Economic Price Adjustment—Semistandard Supplies, or an agency-prescribed clause as authorized in subparagraph (2) below, in solicitations and contracts when all of the following conditions apply:


(i) A fixed price contract is contemplated.


(ii) The requirement is for semistandard supplies for which the prices can be reasonably related to the prices of nearly equivalent standard supplies that have an established catalog or market price.


(iii) The contracting officer has made the determination specified in 16.203-3.


(2) If all conditions in subparagraph (b)(1) above apply and the contracting officer determines that the use of the clause at 52.216-3 is inappropriate, the contracting officer may use an agency-prescribed clause instead of the clause at 52.216-3.


(3) If the negotiated unit price reflects a net price after applying a trade discount from a catalog or list price, the contracting officer shall document in the contract file both the catalog or list price and the discount. (This does not apply to prompt payment or cash discounts.)


(4) Before entering into the contract, the contracting officer and contractor must agree in writing on the identity of the standard supplies and the corresponding line items to which the clause applies.


(5) If the supplies are standard, except for preservation, packaging, and packing requirements, the clause prescribed in 16.203-4(a), shall be used rather than this clause.


(6) The contracting officer may modify the clause by increasing the 10 percent limit on aggregate increases specified in 52.216-3(c)(1), upon approval by the chief of the contracting office.


(c) *Adjustments based on actual cost of labor or material.* (1) The contracting officer shall, when contracting by negotiation, insert a clause that is substantially the same as the clause at 52.216-4, Economic Price Adjustment—Labor and Material, or an agency-prescribed clause as authorized in subparagraph (2) below, in solicitation and contracts when all of the following conditions apply:


(i) A fixed-price contract is contemplated.


(ii) There is no major element of design engineering or development work involved.


(iii) One or more identifiable labor or material cost factors are subject to change.


(iv) The contracting officer has made the determination specified in 16.203-3.


(2) If all conditions in subparagraph (c)(1) above apply and the contracting officer determines that the use of the clause at 52.216-4 is inappropriate, the contracting officer may use an agency-prescribed clause instead of the clause at 52.216-4.


(3) The contracting officer shall describe in detail in the contract Schedule—


(i) The types of labor and materials subject to adjustment under the clause;


(ii) The labor rates, including fringe benefits (if any) and unit prices of materials that may be increased or decreased; and


(iii) The quantities of the specified labor and materials allocable to each unit to be delivered under the contract.


(4) In negotiating adjustments under the clause, the contracting officer shall—


(i) Consider work in process and materials on hand at the time of changes in labor rates, including fringe benefits (if any) or material prices;


(ii) Not include in adjustments any indirect cost (except fringe benefits as defined in 31.205-6(m)) or profit; and


(iii) Consider only those fringe benefits specified in the contract Schedule.


(5) The contracting officer may modify the clause by increasing the 10 percent limit on aggregate increases specified in 52.216-4(c)(4), upon approval by the chief of the contracting office.


(d) *Adjustments based on cost indexes of labor or material.* The contracting officer should consider using an economic price adjustment clause based on cost indexes of labor or material under the circumstances and subject to approval as described in subparagraphs (1) and (2) below.


(1) A clause providing adjustment based on cost indexes of labor or materials may be appropriate when—


(i) The contract involves an extended period of performance with significant costs to be incurred beyond 1 year after performance begins;


(ii) The contract amount subject to adjustment is substantial; and


(iii) The economic variables for labor and materials are too unstable to permit a reasonable division of risk between the Government and the contractor, without this type of clause.


(2) Any clause using this method shall be prepared and approved under agency procedures. Because of the variations in circumstances and clause wording that may arise, no standard clause is prescribed.



---

[N] [48 FR 42219, Sept. 19, 1983, as amended at 52 FR 19803, May 27, 1987; 60 FR 48217, Sept. 18, 1995; 62 FR 259, Jan. 2, 1997; 82 FR 4714, Jan. 13, 2017; 86 FR 61027, Nov. 4, 2021]




