# § 2.66   Revocation decision without hearing.

(a) If the releasee agrees to the decision, the Commission may make a revocation decision without a hearing if—


(1) The alleged violation would be graded no higher than Category Two under the guidelines at § 2.20;


(2) The alleged violation is in any category under the guidelines at § 2.20 and the decision imposes the maximum sanction authorized by law; or


(3) The Commission determines that the releasee has already served sufficient time in custody as a sanction for the violation but that forfeiture of time on parole is necessary to provide an adequate period of supervision.


(b) A releasee who agrees to such a disposition shall indicate such agreement by—


(1) Accepting the decision proposed by the Commission in the Notice of Eligibility for Expedited Revocation Procedure that the Commission sent to the releasee, thereby agreeing that the releasee does not contest the validity of the charge and waives a revocation hearing; or


(2) Offering in writing, before the finding of probable cause or at a probable cause hearing, not to contest the validity of the charge, to waive a revocation hearing, and to accept a decision that is at the bottom of the applicable guideline range as determined by the Commission if the violation would be graded no higher than Category Two under the guidelines at § 2.20, or is the maximum sanction authorized by law.


(c) An alleged violator's agreement under this provision shall not preclude the Commission from taking any action authorized by law or limit the statutory consequences of a revocation decision.


(d) *Special procedures for swift and short-term sanctions for administrative violations of supervision.* (1) An alleged violator may, at the time of the probable cause hearing or preliminary interview, waive the right to a revocation hearing and apply in writing for an immediate prison sanction of no more than 8 months. Notwithstanding the reparole guidelines at § 2.21, the Commission will consider such a sanction if—


(i) The releasee has not already postponed the initial probable cause hearing/preliminary interview by more than 30 days;


(ii) The charges alleged by the Commission do not include a violation of the law;


(iii) The releasee has accepted responsibility for the violations;


(iv) The releasee has agreed to modify the non-compliant behavior to successfully complete any remaining period of supervision; and


(v) The releasee has not already been sanctioned pursuant to this paragraph (d)(1).


(2) A sanction imposed pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section may include any other action authorized by § 2.52, § 2.105, or § 2.218.


(3) Any case not approved by the Commission for a revocation sanction pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall receive the normal revocation hearing procedures including the application of the guidelines at § 2.21.



---

[N] [72 FR 53115, Sept. 18, 2007, as amended at 80 FR 52984, Sept. 2, 2015]




