# ยง 401.140   Fees and charges.

(a) *Statement of policy.* It is CMS's policy to comply with certain requests for information services without charge. Except as otherwise determined pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, fees will be charged for the following services with respect to all other requests for information from records which are reasonably identified by the requesters:


(1) Reproduction, duplication, or copying of records;


(2) Searches for records; and


(3) Certification or authentication of records.


(b) *Fee schedules.* The fee schedule is as follows:


(1) *Search for records.* Three dollars per hour: *Provided, however,* That no charge will be made for the first half hour.


(2) *Reproduction, duplication, or copying of records.* Ten cents per page where such reproduction can be made by commonly available photocopying machines. The cost of reproducing records which cannot be so photocopied will be determined on an individual basis at actual cost.


(3) *Certification or authentication of records.* Three dollars per certification or authentication. 


(4) *Forwarding materials to destination.* Any special arrangements for forwarding which are requested shall be charged at actual cost; however, no charge will be made for postage. 


(5) No charge will be made when the total amount does not exceed five dollars. 


(c) *Waiver or reduction of fees.* Waiver or reduction of the fees in paragraph (b) of this section may be made upon a determination that such waiver or reduction is in the public interest because furnishing the information can be considered as primarily benefiting the general public. Such determination may be made by the appropriate officer or employee identified in ยง 401.144. 


(d) *Sale of documents.* On occasion, a previously printed document may be available for sale to the public; the cost of supplying the document is one cent per page unless the document is available for sale from the Superintendent of Documents, in which case the price shall be that determined by the Superintendent. 




