# § 622.400   Permits and fees.

(a) *Applicability*—(1) *Licenses, certificates, and permits*—(i) *EEZ off Florida and spiny lobster landed in Florida.* For a person to sell, trade, or barter, or attempt to sell, trade, or barter, a spiny lobster harvested or possessed in the EEZ off Florida, or harvested in the EEZ other than off Florida and landed from a fishing vessel in Florida, or for a person to be exempt from the daily bag and possession limit specified in § 622.408(b)(1) for such spiny lobster, such person must have the licenses and certificates specified to be a “commercial harvester,” as defined in Rule 68B-24.002(4), Florida Administrative Code, in effect as of May 1, 2017 (incorporated by reference, see § 622.19).


(ii) *EEZ other than off Florida.* For a person to sell, trade, or barter, or attempt to sell, trade, or barter, a spiny lobster harvested in the EEZ other than off Florida or for a person to be exempt from the daily bag and possession limit specified in § 622.408(b)(1) for such spiny lobster, a Federal vessel permit must be issued to the harvesting vessel and must be on board. However, see paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section for the licenses and certificates required for a person to possess or land spiny lobster harvested in the EEZ other than off Florida and subsequently possessed in the EEZ off Florida or landed from a fishing vessel in Florida.


(2) *Tail-separation permits.* For a person to possess aboard a fishing vessel a separated spiny lobster tail in or from the EEZ, a valid Federal tail-separation permit must be issued to the vessel and must be on board. Permitting prerequisites for the tail-separation permit are either a valid Federal vessel permit for spiny lobster or a valid Florida Saltwater Products License with a valid Florida Restricted Species Endorsement and a valid Crawfish Endorsement.


(3) *Corporation/partnership-owned vessels.* For a vessel owned by a corporation or partnership to be eligible for a Federal vessel permit specified in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, the earned income qualification specified in paragraph (b)(2)(vi) of this section must be met by, and the statement required by that paragraph must be submitted by, an officer or shareholder of the corporation, a general partner of the partnership, or the vessel operator.


(4) *Operator-qualified permits.* A vessel permit issued upon the qualification of an operator is valid only when that person is the operator of the vessel.


(5) *Dealer permits and conditions*—(i) *Permits.* For a dealer to first receive Gulf or South Atlantic spiny lobster harvested in or from the EEZ, a Gulf and South Atlantic dealer permit must be issued to the dealer.


(ii) *State license and facility requirements.* To obtain a dealer permit, the applicant must have a valid state wholesaler's license in the state(s) where the dealer operates, if required by such state(s), and must have a physical facility at a fixed location in such state(s).


(b) *Applications for permits.* (1) An application for a Federal vessel and/or tail-separation permit must be submitted and signed by the owner (in the case of a corporation, a qualifying officer or shareholder; in the case of a partnership, a qualifying general partner) or operator of the vessel. The application must be submitted to the RA at least 30 days prior to the date on which the applicant desires to have the permit made effective.


(2) An applicant must provide the following information:


(i) A copy of the vessel's U.S. Coast Guard certificate of documentation or, if not documented, a copy of its state registration certificate.


(ii) The vessel's name and official number.


(iii) Name, mailing address including zip code, telephone number, social security number, and date of birth of the owner (if the owner is a corporation/partnership, in lieu of the social security number, provide the employer identification number, if one has been assigned by the Internal Revenue Service, and, in lieu of the date of birth, provide the date the corporation/partnership was formed).


(iv) If the owner does not meet the earned income qualification specified in paragraph (b)(2)(vi) of this section and the operator does meet that qualification, the name, mailing address including zip code, telephone number, social security number, and date of birth of the operator.


(v) Information concerning vessel, gear used, fishing areas, and fisheries vessel is used in, as requested by the RA and included on the application form.


(vi) A sworn statement by the applicant for a vessel permit certifying that at least 10 percent of his or her earned income was derived from commercial fishing, that is, sale of the catch, during the calendar year preceding the application.


(vii) Documentation supporting the statement of income, if required under paragraph (b)(3) of this section.


(viii) If a tail-separation permit is desired, a sworn statement by the applicant certifying that his or her fishing activity—


(A) Is routinely conducted in the EEZ on trips of 48 hours or more; and


(B) Necessitates the separation of carapace and tail to maintain a quality product.


(ix) Any other information that may be necessary for the issuance or administration of the permit.


(3) The RA may require the applicant to provide documentation supporting the sworn statement under paragraph (b)(2)(vi) of this section before a permit is issued or to substantiate why such permit should not be revoked or otherwise sanctioned under paragraph (i) of this section. Such required documentation may include copies of appropriate forms and schedules from the applicant's income tax return. Copies of income tax forms and schedules are treated as confidential.


(c) *Change in application information.* The owner or operator of a vessel with a permit must notify the RA within 30 days after any change in the application information specified in paragraph (b) of this section. The permit is void if any change in the information is not reported within 30 days.


(d) *Fees.* A fee is charged for each permit application submitted under paragraph (b) of this section. The amount of the fee is calculated in accordance with the procedures of the NOAA Finance Handbook for determining the administrative costs of each special product or service. The fee may not exceed such costs and is specified with each application form. The appropriate fee must accompany each application.


(e) *Issuance.* (1) The RA will issue a permit at any time to an applicant if the application is complete and the applicant meets the earned income requirement specified in paragraph (b)(2)(vi) of this section. An application is complete when all requested forms, information, and documentation have been received.


(2) Upon receipt of an incomplete application, the RA will notify the applicant of the deficiency. If the applicant fails to correct the deficiency within 30 days of the date of the RA's letter of notification, the application will be considered abandoned.


(f) *Duration.* A permit remains valid for the period specified on it unless the vessel is sold or the permit is revoked, suspended, or modified pursuant to subpart D of 15 CFR part 904.


(g) *Transfer.* A permit issued pursuant to this section is not transferable or assignable. A person purchasing a permitted vessel who desires to conduct activities for which a permit is required must apply for a permit in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section. The application must be accompanied by a copy of a signed bill of sale.


(h) *Display.* A permit issued pursuant to this section must be carried on board the vessel, and such vessel must be identified as required by § 622.402. The operator of a vessel must present the permit for inspection upon the request of an authorized officer.


(i) *Sanctions and denials.* A permit issued pursuant to this section may be revoked, suspended, or modified, and a permit application may be denied, in accordance with the procedures governing enforcement-related permit sanctions and denials found at subpart D of 15 CFR part 904.


(j) *Alteration.* A permit that is altered, erased, or mutilated is invalid.


(k) *Replacement.* A replacement permit may be issued. An application for a replacement permit will not be considered a new application. A fee, the amount of which is stated with the application form, must accompany each request for a replacement permit.



---

[N] [78 FR 22952, Apr. 17, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 19497, Apr. 9, 2014; 84 FR 37151, July 31, 2019; 87 FR 56237, Sept. 13, 2022]




