# ยง 233.2   Circulars and rewards.

(a) *Circulars.* The Inspection Service may issue wanted circulars or notices to assist in the apprehension of fugitives sought in the connection of postal offenses. The Inspection Service may issue circulars or notices seeking information and services leading to the arrest and conviction of any person for postal offenses. Circulars and notices may offer rewards as set forth in paragraph (b) of this section.


(b) *Rewards.* 

(1) Rewards may be paid for any amount up to the maximum categorical amount stated in Poster 296, under the conditions stated in Poster 296, *Notice of Reward,* for information leading to the apprehension of fugitives sought in the connection of the following postal offenses, or for information and services leading to the arrest and conviction of any person for the following postal offenses:


(i) Robbery or attempted robbery.


(ii) Mailing or causing to be mailed bombs, explosives, poison, weapons of mass destruction.


(iii) Post Office burglary.


(iv) Stealing or unlawful possession of mail or money or property of the United States under the custody or control of the Postal Service, including property of the Postal Service.


(v) Destroying, obstructing, or retarding the passage of mail.


(vi) Altering, counterfeiting, forging, unlawful uttering or passing of postal money orders; or the unlawful use, counterfeiting or forgery of postage stamps or other postage; or the use, sale, or possession with intent to use or sell, any forged or counterfeited postage stamp or other postage.


(vii) Assault on postal employee.


(viii) Murder or manslaughter of a postal employee.


(ix) Mailing or receiving through the mail any visual depiction involving the use of a minor engaging in sexually explicit conduct, or the use of the mail to facilitate any crime relating to the sexual exploitation of children.


(x) The use of the mails or any Postal Service product or service to engage in money laundering, mailing, or causing to be mailed any money or other financial instrument which has been obtained illegally,


(xi) Using the mail to execute a scheme to defraud or obtain money or property from another by false pretenses or promises.


(xii) Illegally mailing or causing to be mailed controlled substances, narcotics, illegal drugs, or the proceeds from the sale of illegal drugs.


(xiii) Illegally mailing or causing to be mailed any firearm.


(xiv) Defrauding the USPS Workers' Compensation Program by any current or former postal employee.


(2) The postmaster or a designated employee should personally present reward notices to representatives of firms transporting mail, security or detective units of firms, police officers, sheriffs and their deputies, if practicable, and encourage their cooperation in protecting mail and Postal Service property. (See 273.14 of the Administrative Support Manual).


(c) *Authorization.* The Chief Postal Inspector or his delegate is authorized to pay a reward to any person who provides information leading to the detection of persons or firms who obtain, or seek to obtain, funds, property, or services from the Postal Service based upon false or fraudulent activities, statements, or claims. The decision as to whether a reward shall be paid and the amount thereof shall be solely within the discretion of the Chief Postal Inspector or his delegate and the submission of information or a claim for a reward shall not establish a contractual right to receive any reward. The reward shall not exceed one-half of the amount collected by the Postal Service as a result of civil or criminal proceedings to recover losses or penalties as a result of false or fraudulent claims or statements submitted to the Postal Service. Postal employees assigned to the Postal Inspection Service, the Law Department, or USPS Office of Inspector General are not eligible to receive a reward under this section for information obtained while so employed. The Chief Inspector may establish such procedures and forms as may be desirable to give effect to this section including procedures to protect the identity of persons claiming rewards under this section.



---

[N] [36 FR 4673, Mar. 12, 1971, as amended at 42 FR 43836, Aug. 31, 1977. Redesignated at 46 FR 34330, July 1, 1981, and amended at 47 FR 26832, June 22, 1982; 47 FR 46498, Oct. 19, 1982; 49 FR 15191, Apr. 18, 1984; 54 FR 37795, Sept. 13, 1989; 55 FR 32251, Aug. 8, 1990; 59 FR 5326, Feb. 4, 1994; 60 FR 54305, Oct. 23, 1995; 63 FR 52160, Sept. 30, 1998; 69 FR 16166, Mar. 29, 2004; 88 FR 47025, July 21, 2023]




