# § 5.21   What does a Treasury entity do upon receipt of a request to offset the salary of a Treasury entity employee to collect a debt owed by the employee to another Federal agency?

(a) *Notice to the Treasury employee.* When a Treasury entity receives proper certification of a debt owed by one of its employees, the Treasury entity will begin deductions from the employee's pay at the next officially established pay interval. The Treasury entity will send a written notice to the employee indicating that a certified debt claim has been received from the creditor agency, the amount of the debt claimed to be owed by the creditor agency, the date deductions from salary will begin, and the amount of such deductions. 


(b) *Amount of deductions from Treasury employee's salary.* The amount deducted under § 5.20(b) of this part will be the lesser of the amount of the debt certified by the creditor agency or an amount up to 15% of the debtor's disposable pay. Deductions shall continue until the Treasury entity knows that the debt is paid in full or until otherwise instructed by the creditor agency. Alternatively, the amount offset may be an amount agreed upon, in writing, by the debtor and the creditor agency. *See* § 5.12(g) (salary offset process). 


(c) *When the debtor is no longer employed by the Treasury entity*—(1) *Offset of final and subsequent payments.* If a Treasury entity employee retires or resigns or if his or her employment ends before collection of the debt is complete, the Treasury entity will continue to offset, under 31 U.S.C. 3716, up to 100% of an employee's subsequent payments until the debt is paid or otherwise resolved. Such payments include a debtor's final salary payment, lump-sum leave payment, and other payments payable to the debtor by the Treasury entity. *See* 31 U.S.C. 3716 and 5 CFR 550.1104(l) and 550.1104(m). 


(2) *Notice to the creditor agency.* If the employee is separated from the Treasury entity before the debt is paid in full, the Treasury entity will certify to the creditor agency the total amount of its collection. If the Treasury entity is aware that the employee is entitled to payments from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund, Federal Employee Retirement System, or other similar payments, the Treasury entity will provide written notice to the agency making such payments that the debtor owes a debt (including the amount) and that the provisions of 5 CFR 550.1109 have been fully complied with. The creditor agency is responsible for submitting a certified claim to the agency responsible for making such payments before collection may begin. Generally, creditor agencies will collect such monies through the Treasury Offset Program as described in § 5.9(c) of this part. 


(3) *Notice to the debtor.* The Treasury entity will provide to the debtor a copy of any notices sent to the creditor agency under paragraph (c)(2) of this section. 


(d) *When the debtor transfers to another Federal agency*—(1) *Notice to the creditor agency.* If the debtor transfers to another Federal agency before the debt is paid in full, the Treasury entity will notify the creditor agency and will certify the total amount of its collection on the debt. The Treasury entity will provide a copy of the certification to the creditor agency. The creditor agency is responsible for submitting a certified claim to the debtor's new employing agency before collection may begin. 


(2) *Notice to the debtor.* The Treasury entity will provide to the debtor a copy of any notices and certifications sent to the creditor agency under paragraph (d)(1) of this section. 


(e) *Request for hearing official.* A Treasury entity will provide a hearing official upon the creditor agency's request with respect to a Treasury entity employee. *See* 5 CFR 550.1107(a). 




