# ยง 1206.200   Publishing of records.

(a) *Records required to be published in the Federal Register.* The following records are required to be published in the _Federal Register,_ for codification in Title 14, Chapter V, of the CFR.


(1) Description of NASA Headquarters and NASA Centers and the established places at which, the employees from whom, and the methods whereby, the public may secure information, make submittals or requests, or obtain decisions;


(2) Statements of the general course and method by which NASA's functions are channeled and determined, including the nature and requirements of all formal and informal procedures available;


(3) Rules of procedure, descriptions of forms available or the places at which forms may be obtained, and instructions regarding the scope and contents of all papers, reports, or examinations;


(4) Substantive rules of general applicability adopted as authorized by law, and statements of general policy or interpretations of general applicability formulated and adopted by NASA;


(5) Each amendment, revision, or repeal of the foregoing.


(b) *Agency opinions, orders, statements, and manuals.* (1) Unless they are exempt from disclosure in accordance with the FOIA, or unless they are promptly published and copies offered for sale, NASA shall make available the following records for public inspection in an electronic format or purchase:


(i) All final opinions (including concurring and dissenting opinions) and all orders made in the adjudication of cases;


(ii) Those statements of NASA policy and interpretations which have been adopted by NASA and are not published in the _Federal Register_;


(iii) Administrative staff manuals (or similar issuances) and instructions to staff that affect a member of the public;


(iv) Copies of all records, regardless of form or format, that have been released to any person under Subpart C of this part and that, because of the nature of their subject matter, the Agency determines have become or are likely to become the subject of subsequent requests for substantially the same records (frequently requested documents or documents that have been requested 3 or more times).


(2) *A general index of records referred to under paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section.*

(i) For records created after November 1, 1996, which are covered by paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section, such records shall be available electronically, through an electronic library and in electronic forms or formats.


(ii) In connection with all records required to be made available or published under this paragraph (b), identifying details shall be deleted to the extent required to prevent a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy. However, in each case, the justification for the deletion shall be explained fully in writing. The extent of such deletion shall be indicated on the portion of the record which is made available or published, unless including that indication would harm an interest protected by an exemption in the FOIA. If technically feasible, the extent of the deletion shall be indicated at the place in the record where the deletion is made.


(c) *Other Agency records.* (1) In addition to the records made available or published under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, NASA shall, upon request for other records made in accordance with this part, make such records promptly available to any person, unless they are exempt from disclosure, or unless they may be purchased by the public from other readily available sources, i.e., books.


(2) Furthermore, at a minimum, NASA will maintain records in its electronic library that were created after November 1, 1996, under paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section and a guide for requesting records or information from NASA.



---

[N] [79 FR 46678, Aug. 11, 2014, as amended at NASA-2019-0005, 84 FR 54774, Oct. 11, 2019]




