# § 63.11149   What are the standards and compliance requirements for new sources?

(a) *Emissions limits and work practice standards.* (1) You must not discharge to the atmosphere exhaust gases that contain filterable PM in excess of 0.6 pound per ton of copper concentrate feed charged on a 24-hour average basis from any combination of stacks, vents, or other openings on furnaces, reactors, or other types of process vessels used for the production of anode copper from copper sulfide ore concentrates by pyrometallurgical techniques. Examples of such process equipment include, but are not limited to, copper concentrate dryers, smelting flash furnaces, smelting bath furnaces, converting vessels, combined smelting and converting reactors, anode refining furnaces, and anode shaft furnaces.


(2) You must operate a capture system that collects the gases and fumes released during the transfer of molten materials from smelting vessels and converting vessels and conveys the collected gas stream to a baghouse or other PM control device.


(3) You must operate one or more capture systems that collect the gases and fumes released from each vessel used to refine blister copper, remelt anode copper, or remelt anode scrap and convey each collected gas stream to a baghouse or other PM control device. One control device may be used for multiple collected gas streams.


(b) *Monitoring requirements.* (1) You must install, operate, and maintain a PM continuous emissions monitoring system (CEMS) to measure and record PM concentrations and gas stream flow rates for the exhaust gases discharged to the atmosphere from each affected source subject to the emissions limit in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. A single PM CEMS may be used for the combined exhaust gas streams from multiple affected sources at a point before the gases are discharged to the atmosphere. For each PM CEMS used to comply with this paragraph (b)(1), you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) You must install, certify, operate, and maintain the PM CEMS according to EPA Performance Specification 11 in appendix B to 40 CFR part 60, and the quality assurance requirements of Procedure 2 in appendix F to 40 CFR part 60.


(ii) You must conduct an initial performance evaluation of the PM CEMS according to the requirements of Performance Specification 11 in appendix B to 40 CFR part 60. Thereafter, you must perform the performance evaluations as required by Procedure 2 in appendix F to 40 CFR part 60.


(iii) You must perform quarterly accuracy determinations and daily calibration drift tests for the PM CEMS according to Procedure 2 in appendix F to 40 CFR part 60.


(2) You must install, operate, and maintain a weight measurement system to measure and record the weight of the copper concentrate feed charged to the smelting vessel on a daily basis.


(3)(i) You must comply with the requirements in § 63.8(d)(1) and (2).


(ii) The owner or operator shall keep the written procedures required in § 63.8(d)(1) and (2) on record for the life of the affected source or until the affected source is no longer subject to the provisions of this part, to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator. If the performance evaluation plan is revised, the owner or operator shall keep previous (i.e., superseded) versions of the performance evaluation plan on record to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator, for a period of 5 years after each revision to the plan. The program of corrective action should be included in the plan required under § 63.8(d)(2).


(c) *Compliance requirements.* (1) You must demonstrate initial compliance with the emissions limit in paragraph (a)(1) of this section using the procedures in paragraph (c)(2) this section within 180 days after startup and report the results in your notification of compliance status no later than 30 days after the end of the compliance demonstration.


(2) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the emissions limit in paragraph (a)(1) of this section using the procedures in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section whenever your facility is producing copper from copper concentrate.


(i) You must continuously monitor and record PM emissions, determine and record the daily (24-hour) value for each day, and calculate and record the daily average pounds of filterable PM per ton of copper concentrate feed charged to the smelting vessel according to the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section.


(ii) You must calculate the daily average at the end of each calendar day for the preceding 24-hour period.


(iii) You must maintain records of the calculations of daily averages with supporting information and data, including measurements of the weight of copper concentrate feed charged to the smelting vessel. Collected PM CEMS data must be made available for inspection.


(3)(i) At all times, you must maintain and operate any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. The general duty to minimize emissions does not require the owner or operator to make any further efforts to reduce emissions if levels required by the applicable standard have been achieved. Determination of whether a source is operating in compliance with operation and maintenance requirements will be based on information available to the permitting authority which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.


(ii) All pollution control equipment must be installed, maintained, and operated properly. Instructions from the vendor or established maintenance practices that maximize pollution control must be followed. All necessary equipment control and operating devices, such as pressure gauges, amp meters, volt meters, flow rate indicators, temperature gauges, continuous emissions monitor, etc., must be installed, operated properly and easily accessible to compliance inspectors. A copy of all manufacturers' operating instructions for pollution control equipment and pollution emitting equipment must be maintained at your facility site. These instructions must be available to all employees who operate the equipment and must be made available to the permitting authority upon request. Maintenance records must be made available to the permitting authority upon request.


(iii) You must document the activities performed to assure proper operation and maintenance of the air pollution control equipment and monitoring systems or devices. Records of these activities must be maintained as required by the permitting authority.


(4)(i) In the event that an affected unit fails to meet an applicable standard, record the number of failures. For each failure record the date, time, the cause and duration of each failure.


(ii) For each failure to meet an applicable standard, record and retain a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.


(iii) Record actions taken in accordance with the general duty requirements to minimize emissions in paragraph (c)(3) of this section and any corrective actions taken to return the affected unit to its normal or usual manner of operation.


(d) *Alternative startup, shutdown, and malfunction requirements.* Before November 12, 2024, you must comply with the requirements specified in this paragraph (d) as an alternative to the requirements in § 63.6(e)(3). On or after November 12, 2024, you may not use the requirements in § 63.6(e)(3) as an alternative to the requirements in this paragraph (d). Emissions limitation or work practice standards in this subpart apply at all times. In the event of an emergency situation, you must comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section. For the purpose of complying with this paragraph (d), an emergency situation is any situation arising from sudden and reasonably unforeseeable events beyond the control of the facility owner or operator that requires immediate corrective action to restore normal operation, and that causes the affected source to exceed an applicable emissions limitation under this subpart, due to unavoidable increases in emissions attributable to the emergency. An emergency must not include noncompliance to the extent it is caused by improperly designed equipment, lack of preventive maintenance, careless or improper operation, or operator error.


(1) During the period of the emergency, you must implement all reasonable steps to minimize levels of emissions that exceeded the emission standards or other applicable requirements in this subpart.


(2) You must document through signed contemporaneous logs or other relevant evidence that an emergency occurred and you can identify the probable cause, your facility was being operated properly at the time the emergency occurred, and the corrective actions taken to minimize emissions as required by paragraph (d)(1) of this section.


(3) You must submit a notice of the emergency to the permitting authority within two working days of the time when emissions limitations were exceeded due to the emergency (or an alternate timeframe acceptable to the permitting authority). This notice must contain a description of the emergency, any steps taken to mitigate emissions, and corrective actions taken.


(e) *Reports.* (1) You must submit to the permitting authority by the 20th day of each month a summary of the daily average PM per ton of copper concentrate feed charged to the smelting vessel for the previous month.


(2) Beginning November 12, 2024, the owner or operator must electronically submit all subsequent monthly PM emission reports and notification of compliance status in PDF format to the EPA via CEDRI, which can be accessed through EPA's CDX (*https://cdx.epa.gov/*) following the procedures specified in § 63.9(k).


(3) For each deviation from an emission limitation in paragraph (a)(1) of this section occurring at an affected source, you must include in your semiannual monitoring report the information in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) through (x) of this section.


(i) The date and time that each malfunction started and stopped.


(ii) The start date, and start time, and duration in hours (or minutes for CEMS) that each continuous monitoring system was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks.


(iii) The start date, start time, and duration in hours (or minutes for CEMS) that each continuous monitoring system was out-of-control, including the information in § 63.8(c)(8).


(iv) The total duration in hours (or minutes for CEMS) of all deviations for each CMS during the reporting period, the total operating time in hours of the affected source during the reporting period, a summary of the total duration of the deviation during the reporting period and the total duration as a percent of the total source operating time during that reporting period.


(v) A breakdown of the total duration in hours (or minutes for CEMS) of the deviations during the reporting period including those that are due to control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes.


(vi) The total duration in hours (or minutes for CEMS) of continuous monitoring system downtime for each CMS during the reporting period, the total operating time in hours of the affected source during the reporting period, and the total duration of CMS downtime as a percent of the total source operating time during the reporting period.


(vii) A brief description of the process units.


(viii) The monitoring equipment manufacturer and model number and the pollutant or parameter monitored.


(ix) The date of the latest continuous monitoring system certification or audit.


(x) A description of any changes in continuous monitoring systems, processes, or controls since the last reporting period.


---

[N] [89 FR 41720, May 13, 2024]

 






