# § 217.300   Transitions.

(a) *Capital conservation and countercyclical capital buffer.* (1) From January 1, 2014 through December 31, 2015, a Board-regulated institution is not subject to limits on distributions and discretionary bonus payments under § 217.11 of subpart B of this part notwithstanding the amount of its capital conservation buffer or any applicable countercyclical capital buffer amount.


(2) Notwithstanding § 217.11, beginning January 1, 2016 through December 31, 2018 a Board-regulated institution's maximum payout ratio shall be determined as set forth in Table 1 to § 217.300.


(b) [Reserved]


(c) *Non-qualifying capital instruments*—(1) *Depository institution holding companies with total consolidated assets of more than $15 billion as of December 31, 2009 that were not mutual holding companies prior to May 19, 2010.* The transition provisions in this paragraph (c)(1) apply to debt or equity instruments that do not meet the criteria for additional tier 1 or tier 2 capital instruments in § 217.20, but that were issued and included in tier 1 or tier 2 capital, respectively (or, in the case of a savings and loan holding company, would have been included in tier 1 or tier 2 capital if the savings and loan holding company had been subject to the general risk-based capital rules under 12 CFR part 225, appendix A), prior to May 19, 2010 (non-qualifying capital instruments), and that were issued by a depository institution holding company with total consolidated assets greater than or equal to $15 billion as of December 31, 2009 that was not a mutual holding company prior to May 19, 2010 (2010 MHC) (depository institution holding company of $15 billion or more).


(i) A depository institution holding company of $15 billion or more may include in tier 1 and tier 2 capital non-qualifying capital instruments up to the applicable percentage set forth in Table 8 to § 217.300 of the aggregate outstanding principal amounts of non-qualifying tier 1 and tier 2 capital instruments, respectively, that are outstanding as of January 1, 2014, beginning January 1, 2014, for a depository institution holding company of $15 billion or more that is an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution that is not a savings and loan holding company, and beginning January 1, 2015, for all other depository institution holding companies of $15 billion or more.


(ii) A depository institution holding company of $15 billion or more must apply the applicable percentages set forth in Table 8 to § 217.300 separately to the aggregate amounts of its tier 1 and tier 2 non-qualifying capital instruments.


(iii) The amount of non-qualifying capital instruments that must be excluded from additional tier 1 capital in accordance with this section may be included in tier 2 capital without limitation, provided the instruments meet the criteria for tier 2 capital set forth in § 217.20(d).


(iv) Non-qualifying capital instruments that do not meet the criteria for tier 2 capital set forth in § 217.20(d) may be included in tier 2 capital as follows:


(A) A depository institution holding company of $15 billion or more that is not an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution may include non-qualifying capital instruments that have been phased-out of tier 1 capital in tier 2 capital, and


(B) During calendar years 2014 and 2015, a depository institution holding company of $15 billion or more that is an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution may include non-qualifying capital instruments in tier 2 capital that have been phased out of tier 1 capital in accordance with Table 8 to § 217.300. Beginning January 1, 2016, a depository institution holding company of $15 billion or more that is an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution may include non-qualifying capital instruments in tier 2 capital that have been phased out of tier 1 capital in accordance with Table 8, up to the applicable percentages set forth in Table 9 to § 217.300.


(2) *Mergers and acquisitions.* (i) A depository institution holding company of $15 billion or more that acquires after December 31, 2013 either a depository institution holding company with total consolidated assets of less than $15 billion as of December 31, 2009 (depository institution holding company under $15 billion) or a depository institution holding company that is a 2010 MHC, may include in regulatory capital the non-qualifying capital instruments issued by the acquired organization up to the applicable percentages set forth in Table 8 to § 217.300.


(ii) If a depository institution holding company under $15 billion acquires after December 31, 2013 a depository institution holding company under $15 billion or a 2010 MHC, and the resulting organization has total consolidated assets of $15 billion or more as reported on the resulting organization's FR Y-9C for the period in which the transaction occurred, the resulting organization may include in regulatory capital non-qualifying instruments of the resulting organization up to the applicable percentages set forth in Table 8 to § 217.300.


(3) *Depository institution holding companies under $15 billion and 2010 MHCs.* (i) Non-qualifying capital instruments issued by depository institution holding companies under $15 billion and 2010 MHCs prior to May 19, 2010, may be included in additional tier 1 or tier 2 capital if the instrument was included in tier 1 or tier 2 capital, respectively, as of January 1, 2014.


(ii) Non-qualifying capital instruments includable in tier 1 capital are subject to a limit of 25 percent of tier 1 capital elements, excluding any non-qualifying capital instruments and after applying all regulatory capital deductions and adjustments to tier 1 capital.


(iii) Non-qualifying capital instruments that are not included in tier 1 as a result of the limitation in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section are includable in tier 2 capital.


(4) *Depository institutions.* (i) Beginning on January 1, 2014, a depository institution that is an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution, and beginning on January 1, 2015, all other depository institutions, may include in regulatory capital debt or equity instruments issued prior to September 12, 2010 that do not meet the criteria for additional tier 1 or tier 2 capital instruments in § 217.20 but that were included in tier 1 or tier 2 capital respectively as of September 12, 2010 (non-qualifying capital instruments issued prior to September 12, 2010) up to the percentage of the outstanding principal amount of such non-qualifying capital instruments as of January 1, 2014 in accordance with Table 9 to § 217.300.


(ii) Table 9 to § 217.300 applies separately to tier 1 and tier 2 non-qualifying capital instruments.


(iii) The amount of non-qualifying capital instruments that cannot be included in additional tier 1 capital under this section may be included in tier 2 capital without limitation, provided that the instruments meet the criteria for tier 2 capital instruments under § 217.20(d).


(d) [Reserved]


(e) *Prompt corrective action.* For purposes of 12 CFR part 208, subpart D, a Board-regulated institution must calculate its capital measures and tangible equity ratio in accordance with the transition provisions in this section.


(f) Until July 21, 2015, this part will not apply to any bank holding company subsidiary of a foreign banking organization that is currently relying on Supervision and Regulation Letter SR 01-01 issued by the Board (as in effect on May 19, 2010).


(g) A Board-regulated institution that is not an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution may apply the treatment under §§ 217.21 and 217.22(c)(2), (5), (6), and (d)(2) applicable to an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution during the calendar quarter beginning January 1, 2020. During the quarter beginning January 1, 2020, a Board-regulated institution that makes such an election must deduct 80 percent of the amount otherwise required to be deducted under § 217.22(d)(2) and must apply a 100 percent risk weight to assets not deducted under § 217.22(d)(2). In addition, during the quarter beginning January 1, 2020, a Board-regulated institution that makes such an election must include in its regulatory capital 20 percent of any minority interest that exceeds the amount of minority interest includable in regulatory capital under § 217.21 as it applies to an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution. A Board-regulated institution that is not an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution must apply the treatment under §§ 217.21 and 217.22 applicable to a Board-regulated institution that is not an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution beginning April 1, 2020, and thereafter.


(h) *SA-CCR.* An advanced approaches Board-regulated institution may use CEM rather than SA-CCR for purposes of §§ 217.34(a) and 217.132(c) until January 1, 2022. A Board-regulated institution must provide prior notice to the Board if it decides to begin using SA-CCR before January 1, 2022. On January 1, 2022, and thereafter, an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution must use SA-CCR for purposes of §§ 217.34(a), 217.132(c), and 217.135(d). Once an advanced approaches Board-regulated institution has begun to use SA-CCR, the advanced approaches Board-regulated institution may not change to use CEM.


(i) *Default fund contributions.* Prior to January 1, 2022, a Board-regulated institution that calculates the exposure amounts of its derivative contracts under the standardized approach for counterparty credit risk in § 217.132(c) may calculate the risk-weighted asset amount for a default fund contribution to a QCCP under either method 1 under § 217.35(d)(3)(i) or method 2 under § 217.35(d)(3)(ii), rather than under § 217.133(d).



---

[N] [Reg. Q, 78 FR 62157, 62285, Oct. 11, 2013, as amended at 78 FR 62290, Oct. 11, 2013; 80 FR 70672, Nov. 16, 2015; 80 FR 49103, Aug. 14, 2015; 82 FR 55316, Nov. 21, 2017; 83 FR 705, Jan. 8, 2018; 84 FR 35269, July 22, 2019; 84 FR 61807, Nov. 13, 2019; 85 FR 4429, Jan. 24, 2020]








