# ยง 296.4   Claims eligible for compensation.

(a) *Claimants.* Damage or loss eligible for Fund compensation must be suffered by a commercial fisherman.


(b) *Damage or loss of fishing gear.* Damage or loss is eligible for Fund compensation if it was caused by materials, equipment, tools, containers, or other items associated with OCS oil and gas exploration, development, or production activities. Damage or loss may be eligible for compensation even though it did not occur in OCS waters if the item causing the damage or loss was associated with oil and gas exploration, development, or production activities in OCS waters.


(c) *Exceptions.* Damage or loss is not eligible for Fund compensation: 


(1) If the damage or loss was caused by the negligence or fault of the claimant;


(2) If the damage or loss occurred prior to September 18, 1978;


(3) To the extent that damage or loss exceeds the replacement value of the fishing gear involved;


(4) For any portion of the damage or loss which can be compensated by insurance;


(5) If the claim is not filed within 90 calendar days of the date the claimant or the claimant's agent first became aware of the damage or loss (or such longer period as the Secretary may allow under unusual and extenuating circumstances); or


(6) If the damage or loss was caused by an obstruction unrelated to OCS oil and gas exploration, development, or production activities.



---

[N] [47 FR 49600, Nov. 1, 1982, as amended at 50 FR 13796, Apr. 8, 1985; 61 FR 6322, Feb. 20, 1996]




