# § 478.125a   Personal firearms collection.

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this subpart, a licensed manufacturer, licensed importer, or licensed dealer is not required to comply with the provisions of § 478.102 or record on a firearms transaction record, Form 4473, the sale or other disposition of a firearm maintained as part of the licensee's personal firearms collection: *Provided,* That


(1) The licensee has maintained the firearm as part of such collection for 1 year from the date the firearm was transferred from the business inventory into the personal collection or otherwise acquired as a personal firearm,


(2) The licensee recorded in the bound record prescribed by § 478.122(a), § 478.123(a), or § 478.125(e) the receipt of the firearm into the business inventory or other acquisition,


(3) The licensee recorded the firearm as a disposition in the bound record prescribed by § 478.122(a), § 478.123(a), or § 478.125(e) when the firearm was transferred from the business inventory into the personal firearms collection or otherwise acquired as a personal firearm, and


(4) The licensee enters the sale or other disposition of the firearm from the personal firearms collection into a bound record, under the format prescribed below, identifying the firearm transferred by recording the name of the manufacturer and importer (if any), the model, serial number (including any associated license number either as a prefix, or if remanufactured or imported, separated by a semicolon), type, and the caliber or gauge, and showing the date of the sale or other disposition, the name and address of the transferee, or the name and business address of the transferee if such person is a licensee, and the date of birth of the transferee if other than a licensee. In addition, the licensee shall cause the transferee, if other than a licensee, to be identified in any manner customarily used in commercial transactions (e.g., a drivers license). Where no manufacturer name has been identified on a privately made firearm, the words “privately made firearm” (or abbreviation “PMF”) shall be recorded as the name of the manufacturer. The format required for the disposition record of personal firearms is as follows:


(b) Any licensed manufacturer, licensed importer, or licensed dealer selling or otherwise disposing of a firearm from the licensee's personal firearms collection under this section shall be subject to the restrictions imposed by the Act and this part on the dispositions of firearms by persons other than licensed manufacturers, licensed importers, and licensed dealers.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-270, 53 FR 10504, Mar. 31, 1988, as amended by T.D. ATF-313, 56 FR 32509, July 17, 1991; T.D. ATF-415, 63 FR 58280, Oct. 29, 1998; ATF-11F, 73 FR 57242, Oct. 2, 2008; ATF 2015R-26, 81 FR 38071, June 13, 2016; ATF-2021R-05F, 87 FR 24746, Apr. 26, 2022; ATF 2022R-17, 89 FR 29093, Apr. 19, 2024]




