# § 670.5   Definitions.

As used in this part:


*Accountable Executive* means a single, identifiable individual who has ultimate responsibility for carrying out the Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan of a public transportation agency; responsibility for carrying out the agency's Transit Asset Management Plan; and control or direction over the human and capital resources needed to develop and maintain both the agency's Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan in accordance with 49 U.S.C. 5329(d), and the agency's Transit Asset Management Plan in accordance with 49 U.S.C. 5326.


*Administrator* means the Federal Transit Administrator or his or her designee.


*Advisory* means a notice that informs or warns a recipient of hazards or risks to the recipient's public transportation system. An advisory may include recommendations for avoiding or mitigating the hazards or risks.


*Audit* means a review or analysis of records and related materials, including, but not limited to, those related to financial accounts.


*Corrective action plan* means a plan developed by a recipient that describes the actions the recipient will take to minimize, control, correct or eliminate risks and hazards, and the schedule for taking those actions. Either a State Safety Oversight Agency of FTA may require a recipient to develop and carry out a corrective action plan.


*Deputy Administrator* means the Federal Transit Deputy Administrator or his or her designee.


*Directive* means a written communication from FTA to a recipient that requires the recipient to take one or more specific actions to ensure the safety of the recipient's public transportation system.


*Examination* means a process for gathering or analyzing facts or information related to the safety of a public transportation system.


*FTA* means the Federal Transit Administration.


*Hazard* means any real or potential condition that can cause injury, illness, or death; damage to or loss of the facilities, equipment, rolling stock, or infrastructure of a recipient's public transportation system; or damage to the environment.


*Inspection* means a physical observation of equipment, facilities, rolling stock, operations, or records for the purpose of gathering or analyzing facts or information.


*Investigation* means the process of determining the causal and contributing factors of an accident, incident or hazard for the purpose of preventing recurrence and mitigating risk.


*National Public Transportation Safety Plan* means the plan to improve the safety of all public transportation systems that receive Federal financial assistance under 49 U.S.C. Chapter 53.


*Pattern or practice* means two or more findings by FTA of a recipient's violation of the requirements of 49 U.S.C. 5329 or the regulations thereunder.


*Recipient* means a State or local governmental authority, or any other operator of public transportation that receives financial assistance under 49 U.S.C. Chapter 53. The term “recipient” includes State Safety Oversight Agencies.


*Record* means any writing, drawing, map, recording, diskette, DVD, CD-ROM, tape, film, photograph, or other documentary material by which information is preserved. The term “record” also includes any such documentary material stored electronically.


*Risk* means the composite of predicted severity and likelihood of the potential effect of a hazard.


*Safety Management System (SMS)* means a formal, top-down, organization-wide data-driven approach to managing safety risk and assuring the effectiveness of a recipient's safety risk mitigations. SMS includes systematic procedures, practices and policies for managing risks and hazards.


*State* means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Virgin Islands.


*State Safety Oversight Agency* means an agency established by a State that meets the requirements and performs the functions specified by 49 U.S.C. 5329(e) and the regulations set forth in 49 CFR part 659 or 49 CFR part 674.


*Testing* means an assessment of equipment, facilities, rolling stock or operations of a recipient's public transportation system.




