# ยง 702.803   Definitions.

The following definitions apply to this subpart:


*Calculated compensation rate* means the amount of weekly compensation for total disability or death that a claimant would be entitled to if there were no maximum rates, minimum rates, or section 10(f) adjustments.


*Date of disability.* (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this definition, the date of disability is the date on which the employee first became incapable, because of an injury, of earning the same wages the employee was receiving at the time of the injury.


(2) Exceptions:


(i) For scheduled permanent partial disability benefits under 33 U.S.C. 908(c)(1)-(20) that are not preceded by a permanent total, temporary total, or temporary partial disability resulting from the same injury, the date of disability is the date on which the employee first becomes permanently impaired by the injury to the scheduled member.


(ii) For an occupational disease that does not immediately result in disability, the date of disability is the date on which the employee becomes aware, or in the exercise of reasonable diligence or by reason of medical advice should have been aware, of the relationship between his or her employment, the disease, and the disability.


(iii) For any disability lasting 14 or fewer days, the date of disability is 4 days after the date on which the employee first became incapable, because of an injury, of earning the same wages the employee was receiving at the time of the injury.


*Fiscal year* or *FY* means the period from October 1 of a calendar year until September 30 of the following calendar year.


*Maximum rate* means the maximum weekly compensation rate calculated by the Department for a given fiscal year as described in ยง 702.804(b).


*Minimum rate* means the minimum weekly compensation rate calculated by the Department for a given fiscal year as described in ยง 702.804(c).


*Section 10(f) adjustment* means the annual increase that certain claimants receiving compensation for permanent total disability or death are entitled to each fiscal year under 33 U.S.C. 910(f) and as calculated by the Department as described in ยง 702.701(b).




