# ยง 984.101   Purpose, applicability, and scope.

(a) *Purpose.* (1) The purpose of the Family Self-Sufficiency (FSS) program is to promote the development of local strategies to coordinate the use of Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD or Department) assistance with public and private resources, to enable families eligible to receive HUD assistance to achieve economic independence and self-sufficiency.


(2) The purpose of this part is to implement the policies and procedures applicable to operation of an FSS program, as established under section 23 of the 1937 Act (42 U.S.C. 1437u).


(b) *Applicability.* This part applies to Public Housing Agencies (PHAs) administering a public housing program under section 9, a project-based and/or tenant-based assistance program under section 8(o) of the U.S. Housing Act of 1937 (1937 Act), a Housing Choice Voucher (HCV) homeownership program under section 8(y) of the U.S. Housing Act of 1937, or Section 8 Moderate Rehabilitation for low-income families and Moderate Rehabilitation Single Room Occupancy for homeless individuals under 24 CFR part 882. See part 887 of this title for program regulations applicable to owners of multifamily assisted housing.


(c) *Scope.* Each PHA that administers an FSS program must do so in accordance with the requirements of this part. See ยง 984.105 for more information concerning PHAs that are required to administer an FSS program.


(d) *Non-participation.* Participation in an FSS program is voluntary. A family's admission to the public housing or Section 8 programs cannot be conditioned on participation in FSS. A family's housing assistance cannot be terminated by reason of such election or due to an FSS family's failure to comply with FSS program requirements in this part.






