# § 13.25   Disclosure of data and information by the participants.

(a) Before the notice of hearing is published under § 13.5, the director of the center responsible for the matters involved in the hearing must submit to the Dockets Management Staff—


(1) The relevant portions of the existing administrative record of the proceeding. Portions of the administrative record not relevant to the issues in the hearing are not part of the administrative record;


(2) A list of all persons whose views will be presented orally or in writing at the hearing;


(3) All documents in the director's files containing factual information, whether favorable or unfavorable to the director's position, which relate to the issues involved in the hearing. *Files* means the principal files in the center in which documents relating to the issues in the hearing are ordinarily kept, e.g., the food additive master file and the food additive petition in the case of issues concerning a food additive, or the new drug application in the case of issues concerning a new drug. Internal memoranda reflecting the deliberative process, and attorney work product and material prepared specifically for use in connection with the hearing, are not required to be submitted;


(4) All other documentary information relied on; and


(5) A signed statement that, to the best of the director's knowledge and belief, the submission complies with this section.


(b) Within the time prescribed in the notice of hearing published under § 13.5, each participant shall submit to the Dockets Management Staff all information specified in paragraph (a)(2) through (5) of this section and any objections that the administrative record filed under paragraph (a)(1) of this section is incomplete. With respect to the information specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, participants are to exercise reasonable diligence in identifying documents in files comparable to those described in that paragraph.


(c) The submissions required by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section may be supplemented later in the proceeding, with the approval of the Board, on a showing that the views of the persons or the material contained in the supplement was not known or reasonably available when the initial submission was made or that the relevance of the views of the persons or the material contained in the supplement could not reasonably have been foreseen.


(d) The failure to comply substantially and in good faith with this section in the case of a participant constitutes a waiver of the right to participate further in the hearing and in the case of a party constitutes a waiver of the right to a hearing.


(e) The Chairman rules on questions relating to this section. Any participant dissatisfied with a ruling may petition the Commissioner for interlocutory review.



---

[N] [44 FR 22348, Apr. 13, 1979, as amended at 50 FR 8994, Mar. 6, 1985; 54 FR 9035, Mar. 3, 1989]




