# § 7.11   Requirements for international application originating from the United States.

(a) The Office will grant a date of receipt to an international application that is filed through TEAS in accordance with § 7.4(a), or typed on the official paper form issued by the International Bureau, if permitted under § 7.4(c) or accepted on petition pursuant to § 7.4(d). The international application must include all of the following:


(1) The filing date and serial number of the basic application and/or the registration date and registration number of the basic registration;


(2) The name and entity of the international applicant that is identical to the name and entity of the applicant or registrant in the basic application or basic registration, and the applicant's current address;


(3) A reproduction of the mark that is the same as the mark in the basic application and/or registration and that meets the requirements of § 2.52 of this title.


(i) If the mark in the basic application and/or registration is depicted in black and white and the basic application or registration does not include a color claim, the reproduction of the mark in the international application must be black and white.


(ii) If the mark in the basic application or registration is depicted in black and white and includes a color claim, the international application must include both a black and white reproduction of the mark and a color reproduction of the mark.


(iii) If the mark in the basic application and/or registration is depicted in color, the reproduction of the mark in the international application must be in color.


(iv) If the international application is filed on paper, the mark must be no more than 3.15 inches (8 cm) high by 3.15 inches (8 cm) wide, and must appear in the box designated by the International Bureau on the International Bureau's official form;


(4) A color claim as set out in § 7.12, if appropriate;


(5) A description of the mark that is the same as the description of the mark in the basic application or registration, as appropriate;


(6) An indication of the type of mark if the mark in the basic application and/or registration is a three-dimensional mark, a sound mark, a collective mark or a certification mark;


(7) A list of the goods and/or services that is identical to or narrower than the list of goods and/or services in each claimed basic application or registration and classified according to the *Nice Agreement Concerning the International Classification of Goods and Services for the Purposes of the Registration of Marks*;


(8) A list of the designated Contracting Parties. If the goods and/or services in the international application are not the same for each designated Contracting Party, the application must list the goods and/or services in the international application that pertain to each designated Contracting Party;


(9) The certification fee required by § 7.6;


(10) If the application is filed through TEAS, the international application fees for all classes, and the fees for all designated Contracting Parties identified in the international application (*see* § 7.7); and


(11) A statement that the applicant is entitled to file an international application in the Office, specifying that applicant: Is a national of the United States; has a domicile in the United States; or has a real and effective industrial or commercial establishment in the United States. Where an applicant's address is not in the United States, the applicant must provide the address of its U.S. domicile or establishment.


(b) For requirements for certification, see § 7.13.



---

[N] [68 FR 55769, Sept. 26, 2003, as amended at 69 FR 57185, Sept. 24, 2004; 73 FR 67775, Nov. 17, 2008; 84 FR 37098, July 31, 2019]




