# ยง 301.8   Instructions for entering instruments through Customs and Border Protection under subheading 9810.00.60, HTSUS.

Failure to follow the procedures in this section may disqualify an instrument for duty-free entry notwithstanding an approval of an application on its merits by the Department of Commerce.


(a) *Entry procedures.* (1) An applicant desiring duty-free entry of an instrument may make a claim at the time of entry of the instrument into the Customs territory of the United States (as defined in 19 CFR 101.1) that the instrument is entitled to duty-free classification under subheading 9810.00.60, HTSUS.


(2) If no such claim is made the instrument shall be immediately classified without regard to subheading 9810.00.60, HTSUS , duty will be assessed, and the entry liquidated in the ordinary course.


(3) If a claim is made for duty-free entry under subheading 9810.00.60, HTSUS , the entry shall be accepted without requiring a deposit of estimated duties provided that a copy of the form, stamped by Customs and Border Protection as accepted for transmittal to the Department of Commerce in accordance with ยง 301.4(b), is filed simultaneously with the entry.


(4) If a claim for duty-free entry under subheading 9810.00.60, HTSUS is made but is not accompanied by a copy of the properly stamped form, a deposit of the estimated duty is required. Before the entry is liquidated, the applicant must file with the CBP Port a properly stamped copy of the application form. In the event that the CBP Port does not receive a copy of the properly stamped application form before liquidation, the instrument shall be classified and liquidated in the ordinary course, without regard for subheading 9810.00.60, HTSUS.


(5) Entry of an instrument after the Director's approval of an application. Whenever an institution defers entry until after it receives a favorable final determination on the application for duty-free entry of the instrument, either by delaying importation or by placing the instrument in a bonded warehouse or foreign trade zone, the importer shall file with the entry of the instrument (i) the stamped copy of the form, (ii) the institution's copy of the favorable final determination and (iii) proof that a bona fide order for the merchandise was placed on or before the 60th day after the favorable decision became final pursuant to ยง 301.7 of these regulations. Liquidation in such case shall be made under subheading 9810.00.60, HTSUS.


(b) *Normal Customs and Border Protection entry requirements.* In addition to the entry requirements in paragraph (a) of this section, the normal Customs and Border Protection entry requirements must be met. In most of the cases, the value of the merchandise will be such that the formal Customs and Border Protection entry requirements, which generally include the filing of a Customs and Border Protection entry bond, must be complied with. (For further information, see 19 CFR 142.3 and 142.4 (TD-221).)


(c) *Late filing.* Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this section any document, form, or statement required by regulations in this section to be filed in connection with the entry may be filed at any time before liquidation of the entry becomes final, provided that failure to file at the time of entry or within the period for which a bond was filed for its production was not due to willful negligence or fraudulent intent. Liquidation of any entry becomes conclusive upon all persons if the liquidation is not protested in writing in accordance with 19 CFR part 174, or the necessary document substantiating duty-free entry is not produced in accordance with 19 CFR 10.112. Upon notice of such final and conclusive liquidation, the Department of Commerce will cease the processing of any pending application for duty-free entry of the subject article. In all other respects, the provisions of this section do not apply to Department of Commerce responsibilities and procedures for processing applications pursuant to other sections of these regulations.


(d) *Payment of duties.* The importer of record will be billed for payment of duties when Customs and Border Protection determines that such payment is due. If a refund of a deposit made pursuant to paragraph (a)(4) of this section is due, the importer should contact Customs and Border Protection officials at the port of entry, not the Department of Commerce.



---

[N] [47 FR 32517, July 28, 1982, as amended at 66 FR 28834, May 25, 2001; 74 FR 30463, June 26, 2009]




