# ยง 1909.2   Definitions.

As used in this part:


*Agency Release Panel or Panel or ARP* means the CIA Agency Release Panel established pursuant to part 1900 of this chapter.


*CIA* means the Unites States Central Intelligence Agency.


*Control* means ownership or the authority of the CIA pursuant to Federal statute or legal privilege to regulate official or public access to records.


*Coordinator* means the CIA Information and Privacy Coordinator who serves as the CIA manager of the historical access process established pursuant to section 4.4 of the Order.


*Days* means business days. Three (3) days may be added to any time limit imposed on a requester by this part if responding by U.S. domestic mail; ten (10) days may be added if responding by international mail;


*Director of Security* means the CIA official responsible for making determinations regarding all security and access approvals and overseeing execution of the necessary secrecy, nondisclosure, and/or prepublication review agreements as may be required.


*Former Presidential or Vice Presidential appointee or designee* means any person who has previously occupied a senior policy-making position in the Executive branch of the United States Government to which they were appointed or designated by the current or a former President or Vice President.


*Historical researcher* means any individual with professional training in the academic field of history (or related fields such as journalism) engaged in a historical research project that is intended for publication (or any similar activity such as academic course development) and that is reasonably intended to increase the understanding of the American public regarding the operations and activities of the United States Government. This term also means anyone selected by a former President or Vice President, or by a former Presidential or Vice Presidential appointee or designee, to assist them in historical research as a research associate.


*Information* means any knowledge that can be communicated or documentary material, regardless of its physical form that is owned by, produced by or for, or is under the control of the United States Government.


*Interested party* means any official in the executive, congressional, or judicial branches of government, United States or foreign, or U.S. Government contractor who, in the sole discretion of the CIA, has a subject matter or physical interest in the documents or information at issue;


*Originator* means the CIA officer who originated the information at issue, or successor in office, or a CIA officer who has been delegated declassification authority for the information at issue in accordance with the provisions of the Order.


*Order* means Executive Order 13526 of December 29, 2009 and published at 75 FR 707 (or successor Orders).


*Senior Agency Official* means the official designated by the DCIA under section 5.4(d) of the Order to direct and administer the CIA's program under which information is classified, safeguarded, and declassified.




