# § 1090.720   Credit use.

(a) *General credit use provisions.* Only a gasoline manufacturer may generate, use, transfer, or own credits generated under this subpart, as specified in § 1090.725(a)(1). Credits may be used by a gasoline manufacturer to comply with the average standards specified in subpart C of this part. A gasoline manufacturer may also bank credits for future use, transfer credits to another facility within the company (*i.e.,* intracompany trading), or transfer credits to another gasoline manufacturer, if all applicable requirements of this subpart are met.


(b) *Credit life.* Credits are valid for use for 5 years after the compliance period for which they are generated.


(c) *Limitations on credit use.* (1) Credits that have expired must not be used for demonstrating compliance with the average standards specified in subpart C of this part or be used to replace invalid credits under § 1090.735.


(2) A gasoline manufacturer possessing credits must use all credits prior to incurring a compliance deficit under § 1090.715.


(3) Credits must not be used to meet per-gallon standards.


(4) Credits must not be used to meet the maximum benzene average standard in § 1090.210(b).


(5) Credits may only be used if the gasoline manufacturer owns them at the time of use.


(d) *Credit reporting.* A gasoline manufacturer that generates, transacts, or uses credits under this subpart must report to EPA as specified in § 1090.905 using forms and procedures specified by EPA.


(e) *Part 80 credit use.* Valid credits generated under 40 CFR 80.1615 and 80.1290 may be used by a gasoline manufacturer to comply with the average standards in subpart C of this part, subject to the provisions of this subpart.




