# § 26.43   Holders of and applicants for type certificates—Repairs.

(a) *Applicability.* Except as specified in paragraph (g) of this section, this section applies to transport category, turbine powered airplane models with a type certificate issued after January 1, 1958, that as a result of original type certification or later increase in capacity have—


(1) A maximum type certificated passenger seating capacity of 30 or more; or


(2) A maximum payload capacity of 7,500 pounds or more.


(b) *List of fatigue critical baseline structure.* For airplanes specified in paragraph (a) of this section, the holder of or applicant for a type certificate must—


(1) Identify fatigue critical baseline structure for all airplane model variations and derivatives approved under the type certificate; and


(2) Develop and submit to the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office for review and approval, a list of the structure identified under paragraph (b)(1) of this section and, upon approval, make the list available to persons required to comply with § 26.47 and §§ 121.1109 and 129.109 of this chapter.


(c) *Existing and future published repair data.* For repair data published by a holder of a type certificate that is current as of January 11, 2008 and for all later published repair data, the holder of a type certificate must—


(1) Review the repair data and identify each repair specified in the data that affects fatigue critical baseline structure identified under paragraph (b)(1) of this section;


(2) Perform a DTE and develop the DTI for each repair identified under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, unless previously accomplished;


(3) Submit the DT data to the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office or its properly authorized designees for review and approval; and


(4) Upon approval, make the DTI available to persons required to comply with §§ 121.1109 and 129.109 of this chapter.


(d) *Future repair data not published.* For repair data developed by a holder of a type certificate that are approved after January 11, 2008 and are not published, the type certificate holder must accomplish the following for repairs specified in the repair data that affect fatigue critical baseline structure:


(1) Perform a DTE and develop the DTI.


(2) Submit the DT data required in paragraph (d)(1) of this section for review and approval by the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office or its properly authorized designees.


(3) Upon approval, make the approved DTI available to persons required to comply with §§ 121.1109 and 129.109 of this chapter.


(e) *Repair evaluation guidelines.* Except for airplane models whose type certificate is issued after January 11, 2008, holders of a type certificate for each airplane model subject to this section must—


(1) Develop repair evaluation guidelines for operators' use that include—


(i) A process for conducting surveys of affected airplanes that will enable identification and documentation of all existing repairs that affect fatigue critical baseline structure identified under paragraph (b)(1) of this section and § 26.45(b)(2);


(ii) A process that will enable operators to obtain the DTI for repairs identified under paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section; and


(iii) An implementation schedule for repairs covered by the repair evaluation guidelines. The implementation schedule must identify times when actions must be taken as specific numbers of airplane flight hours, flight cycles, or both.


(2) Submit the repair evaluation guidelines to the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office for review and approval.


(3) Upon approval, make the guidelines available to persons required to comply with §§ 121.1109 and 129.109 of this chapter.


(4) If the guidelines direct the operator to obtain assistance from the holder of a type certificate, make such assistance available in accordance with the implementation schedule.


(f) *Compliance times.* Holders of type certificates must submit the following to the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office or its properly authorized designees for review and approval by the specified compliance time:


(1) The identified list of fatigue critical baseline structure required by paragraph (b)(2) of this section must be submitted no later than 180 days after January 11, 2008 or before issuance of the type certificate, whichever occurs later.


(2) For published repair data that are current as of January 11, 2008, the DT data required by paragraph (c)(3) of this section must be submitted by June 30, 2009.


(3) For repair data published after January 11, 2008, the DT data required by paragraph (c)(3) of this section must be submitted before FAA approval of the repair data.


(4) For unpublished repair data developed after January 11, 2008, the DT data required by paragraph (d)(1) of this section must be submitted within 12 months of the airplane's return to service or in accordance with a schedule approved by the responsible Aircraft Certification Service office.


(5) The repair evaluation guidelines required by paragraph (e)(1) of this section must be submitted by December 30, 2009.


(g) *Exceptions.* The requirements of this section do not apply to the following transport category airplane models:


(1) Convair CV-240, 340, 440, if modified to include turbine engines.


(2) Vickers Armstrong Viscount, TCDS No. A-814.


(3) Douglas DC-3, if modified to include turbine engines, TCDS No. A-618.


(4) Bombardier CL-44, TCDS No. 1A20.


(5) Mitsubishi YS-11, TCDS No. A1PC.


(6) British Aerospace BAC 1-11, TCDS No. A5EU.


(7) Concorde, TCDS No. A45EU.


(8) deHavilland D.H. 106 Comet 4C, TCDS No. 7A10.


(9) deHavilland DHC-7, TCDS No. A20EA.


(10) VFW-Vereinigte Flugtechnische Werk VFW-614, TCDS No. A39EU.


(11) Illyushin Aviation IL 96T, TCDS No. A54NM.


(12) Bristol Aircraft Britannia 305, TCDS No. 7A2.


(13) Handley Page Herald Type 300, TCDS No. A21N.


(14) Avions Marcel Dassault—Breguet Aviation Mercure 100C, TCDS No. A40EU.


(15) Airbus Caravelle, TCDS No. 7A6.


(16) Lockheed L-300, TCDS No. A2S0.


(17) Boeing 707-100/-200, TCDS No. 4A21.


(18) Boeing 707-300/-400, TCDS No. 4A26.


(19) Boeing 720, TCDS No. 4A28.



---

[N] [Doc. No. FAA-2005-21693, 72 FR 70505, Dec. 12, 2007, as amended by Amdt. 26-4, 75 FR 11734, Mar. 12, 2010; Doc. No. FAA-2018-0119, Amdt. 26-7, 83 FR 9170, Mar. 5, 2018]




