# § 503.17   Recordkeeping.

(a) *Sewage sludge.* (1) The person who prepares the sewage sludge in § 503.10(b)(1) or (e) shall develop the following information and shall retain the information for five years: 


(i) The concentration of each pollutant listed in Table 3 of § 503.13 in the sewage sludge. 


(ii) The following certification statement: 


(iii) A description of how the Class A pathogen requirements in § 503.32(a) are met. 


(iv) A description of how one of the vector attraction reduction requirements in § 503.33 (b)(1) through (b)(8) is met. 


(2) The person who derives the material in § 503.10 (c)(1) or (f) shall develop the following information and shall retain the information for five years: 


(i) The concentration of each pollutant listed in Table 3 of § 503.13 in the material. 


(ii) The following certification statement: 


(iii) A description of how the Class A pathogen requirements in § 503.32(a) are met. 


(iv) A description of how one of the vector attraction reduction requirements in § 503.33 (b)(1) through (b)(8) is met. 


(3) If the pollutant concentrations in § 503.13(b)(3), the Class A pathogen requirements in § 503.32(a), and the vector attraction reduction requirements in either § 503.33 (b)(9) or (b)(10) are met when bulk sewage sludge is applied to agricultural land, forest, a public contact site, or a reclamation site: 


(i) The person who prepares the bulk sewage sludge shall develop the following information and shall retain the information for five years. 


(A) The concentration of each pollutant listed in Table 3 of § 503.13 in the bulk sewage sludge. 


(B) The following certification statement: 


(C) A description of how the pathogen requirements in § 503.32(a) are met. 


(ii) The person who applies the bulk sewage sludge shall develop the following information and shall retain the information for five years. 


(A) The following certification statement: 


(B) A description of how the management practices in § 503.14 are met for each site on which bulk sewage sludge is applied. 


(C) A description of how the vector attraction reduction requirements in either § 503.33(b)(9) or (b)(10) are met for each site on which bulk sewage sludge is applied. 


(4) If the pollutant concentrations in § 503.13(b)(3) and the Class B pathogen requirements in § 503.32(b) are met when bulk sewage sludge is applied to agricultural land, forest, a public contact site, or a reclamation site: 


(i) The person who prepares the bulk sewage sludge shall develop the following information and shall retain the information for five years: 


(A) The concentration of each pollutant listed in Table 3 of § 503.13 in the bulk sewage sludge. 


(B) The following certification statement: 


(C) A description of how the Class B pathogen requirements in § 503.32(b) are met. 


(D) When one of the vector attraction reduction requirements in § 503.33 (b)(1) through (b)(8) is met, a description of how the vector attraction reduction requirement is met. 


(ii) The person who applies the bulk sewage sludge shall develop the following information and shall retain the information for five years. 


(A) The following certification statement: 


(B) A description of how the management practices in § 503.14 are met for each site on which bulk sewage sludge is applied. 


(C) A description of how the site restrictions in § 503.32(b)(5) are met for each site on which bulk sewage sludge is applied. 


(D) When the vector attraction reduction requirement in either § 503.33 (b)(9) or (b)(10) is met, a description of how the vector attraction reduction requirement is met. 


(E) The date bulk sewage sludge is applied to each site.


(5) If the requirements in § 503.13(a)(2)(i) are met when bulk sewage sludge is applied to agricultural land, forest, a public contact site, or a reclamation site: 


(i) The person who prepares the bulk sewage sludge shall develop the following information and shall retain the information for five years. 


(A) The concentration of each pollutant listed in Table 1 of § 503.13 in the bulk sewage sludge. 


(B) The following certification statement: 


(C) A description of how the pathogen requirements in either § 503.32 (a) or (b) are met. 


(D) When one of the vector attraction requirements in § 503.33 (b)(1) through (b)(8) is met, a description of how the vector attraction requirement is met. 


(ii) The person who applies the bulk sewage sludge shall develop the following information, retain the information in § 503.17 (a)(5)(ii)(A) through (a)(5)(ii)(G) indefinitely, and retain the information in § 503.17 (a)(5)(ii)(H) through (a)(5)(ii)(M) for five years. 


(A) The location, by either street address or latitude and longitude, of each site on which bulk sewage sludge is applied. 


(B) The number of hectares in each site on which bulk sewage sludge is applied. 


(C) The date bulk sewage sludge is applied to each site.


(D) The cumulative amount of each pollutant (*i.e.*, kilograms) listed in Table 2 of § 503.13 in the bulk sewage sludge applied to each site, including the amount in § 503.12(e)(2)(iii). 


(E) The amount of sewage sludge (*i.e.*, metric tons) applied to each site. 


(F) The following certification statement: 


(G) A description of how the requirements to obtain information in § 503.12(e)(2) are met. 


(H) The following certification statement: 


(I) A description of how the management practices in § 503.14 are met for each site on which bulk sewage sludge is applied. 


(J) The following certification statement when the bulk sewage sludge meets the Class B pathogen requirements in § 503.32(b): 


(K) A description of how the site restrictions in § 503.32(b)(5) are met for each site on which Class B bulk sewage sludge is applied. 


(L) The following certification statement when the vector attraction reduction requirement in either § 503.33(b)(9) or (b)(10) is met: 


(M) If the vector attraction reduction requirements in either § 503.33 (b)(9) or (b)(10) are met, a description of how the requirements are met. 


(6) If the requirements in § 503.13(a)(4)(ii) are met when sewage sludge is sold or given away in a bag or other container for application to the land, the person who prepares the sewage sludge that is sold or given away in a bag or other container shall develop the following information and shall retain the information for five years: 


(i) The annual whole sludge application rate for the sewage sludge that does not cause the annual pollutant loading rates in Table 4 of § 503.13 to be exceeded. 


(ii) The concentration of each pollutant listed in Table 4 of § 503.13 in the sewage sludge. 


(iii) The following certification statement:


(iv) A description of how the Class A pathogen requirements in § 503.32(a) are met. 


(v) A description of how one of the vector attraction requirements in § 503.33 (b)(1) through (b)(8) is met. 


(b) *Domestic septage.* When domestic septage is applied to agricultural land, forest, or a reclamation site, the person who applies the domestic septage shall develop the following information and shall retain the information for five years:


(1) The location, by either street address or latitude and longitude, of each site on which domestic septage is applied. 


(2) The number of acres in each site on which domestic septage is applied. 


(3) The date domestic septage is applied to each site.


(4) The nitrogen requirement for the crop or vegetation grown on each site during a 365 day period. 


(5) The rate, in gallons per acre per 365 day period, at which domestic septage is applied to each site. 


(6) The following certification statement:


(7) A description of how the pathogen requirements in either § 503.32(c)(1) or (c)(2) are met.


(8) A description of how the vector attraction reduction requirements in § 503.33 (b)(9), (b)(10), or (b)(12) are met. 



---

[N] [58 FR 9387, Feb. 19, 1993, as amended at 64 FR 42569, Aug. 4, 1999]




