# § 761.205   Notification of PCB waste activity (EPA Form 7710-53).

(a)(1) All commercial storers, transporters, and disposers of PCB waste who were engaged in PCB waste handling activities on or prior to February 5, 1990 shall notify EPA of their PCB waste activities by filing EPA Form 7710-53 with EPA by no later than April 4, 1990. Upon receiving the notification form, EPA will assign an EPA identification number to each entity that notifies. 


(2) All generators (other than generators exempt from notification under paragraph (c)(1) of this section), commercial storers, transporters, and disposers of PCB waste who first engage in PCB waste handling activities after February 5, 1990, shall notify EPA of their PCB waste activities by filing EPA Form 7710-53 with EPA prior to engaging in PCB waste handling activities. 


(3) Any person required to notify EPA under this section shall file with EPA Form 7710-53. A copy of EPA Form 7710-53 is available on EPA's website at *https://www.epa.gov/pcbs,* or from the Program Implementation and Information Division, Office of Resource Conservation and Recovery (5303T), Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave. NW, Washington, DC 20460-0001 ATTN: PCB Notification. Descriptive information and instructions for filling in the form are included in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (vii) of this section.


(4) All of the following information shall be provided to EPA on Form 7710-53: 


(i) The name of the facility, and the name of the owner or operator of the facility. 


(ii) EPA identification number, if any, previously issued to the facility. 


(iii) The facility's mailing address. 


(iv) The location of the facility. 


(v) The facility's installation contact, telephone number, and email address.


(vi) The type of PCB waste activity engaged in at the facility. 


(vii) Signature of the signer of the certification statement, typed or printed name and official title of signer, and date signed. 


(viii) EPA has determined that the information in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (a)(4)(vii) of this section shall not be treated as confidential business information. This information will be disclosed to the public without further notice to the submitter unless the submitter provides a written justification (submitted with the notification form) which demonstrates extraordinary reasons why the information should be entitled to confidential treatment. 


(b) Generators (other than those generators exempt from notification under paragraph (c)(1) of this section), commercial storers, transporters, and disposers of PCB waste who have previously notified EPA or a State of hazardous waste activities under RCRA shall notify EPA of their PCB waste activities under this part by filing EPA Form 7710-53 with EPA by no later than April 4, 1990. The notification shall include the EPA identification number previously issued by EPA or the State and upon receipt of the notification, EPA shall verify and authorize the use of the previously issued identification number for PCB waste activities. 


(c)(1) Generators of PCB waste need not notify EPA and receive unique EPA identification numbers under this section, unless their PCB waste activities are described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. Generators exempted from notifying EPA under this paragraph shall use the generic identification number “40 CFR PART 761” on the manifests, records, and reports which they shall prepare under this subpart, unless such generators elect to use a unique EPA identification number previously assigned to them under RCRA by EPA or a State. 


(2) Generators of PCB waste who use, own, service, or process PCBs or PCB Items shall notify EPA of their PCB waste activities only if they own or operate PCB storage facilities subject to the storage requirements of § 761.65 (b) or (c)(7). Such generators shall notify EPA in the following manner: 


(i) Generators storing PCB waste subject to the storage requirements of § 761.65 (b) or (c)(7) shall notify EPA by filing EPA Form 7710-53 with EPA by no later than April 4, 1990.


(ii) Generators who desire to commence storage of PCB waste after February 5, 1990 shall notify EPA and receive an EPA identification number before they may commence storage of PCBs at their facilities established under § 761.65 (b) or (c)(7). 


(iii) A separate notification shall be submitted to EPA for each PCB storage facility owned or operated by generators of PCB waste. Upon receiving these notifications, EPA will assign generators unique EPA identification numbers for each storage facility notifying EPA under this section. 


(d) Persons required to notify under this section shall file EPA Form 7710-53 with the EPA in accordance with the instructions on the form.




(e) The requirements under this section to notify EPA and obtain EPA identification numbers shall in no case excuse compliance by any person subject to the 1-year limit on storage prior to disposal under § 761.65(a). 


(f) When a facility has previously notified EPA of its PCB waste handling activities using EPA Form 7710-53 and those activities change, the facility must resubmit EPA Form 7710-53 to reflect those changes no later than 30 days from when a change is made. Examples of when a PCB waste handler must renotify the Agency include, but are not limited to the following: the company changes location of the facility; or the company had notified solely as engaging in a certain type of PCB waste handling activity and now wishes to engage in another PCB waste activity (e.g., previously only commercially stored PCB waste and now wishes to transport PCB waste).



---

[N] [54 FR 52752, Dec. 21, 1989, as amended at 58 FR 15809, Mar. 24, 1993; 58 FR 34205, June 23, 1993; 59 FR 33697, June 30, 1994; 63 FR 35461, June 29, 1998; 72 FR 57241, Oct. 9, 2007; 74 FR 30234, June 25, 2009; 88 FR 59698, Aug. 29, 2023; 89 FR 60737, July 26, 2024]






