# § 282.68   Louisiana State-Administered Program.

(a) *History of the approval of Louisiana's program.* The State of Louisiana is approved to administer and enforce an underground storage tank program in lieu of the Federal program under subtitle I of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (RCRA), as amended, 42 U.S.C. 6991 *et seq.* The State's program, as administered by the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality, was approved by EPA pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 6991c and part 281 of this chapter. EPA published the notice of final determination approving the Louisiana underground storage tank base program effective on September 4, 1992. A subsequent program revision application was approved effective on August 3, 2020.


(b) *Enforcement authority.* Louisiana has primary responsibility for administering and enforcing its federally approved underground storage tank program. However, EPA retains the authority to exercise its corrective action, inspection, and enforcement authorities under sections 9003(h), 9005 and 9006 of subtitle I of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991b(h), 6991d and 6991e, as well as under any other applicable statutory and regulatory provisions.


(c) *Retaining program approval.* To retain program approval, Louisiana must revise its approved program to adopt new changes to the Federal subtitle I program which make it more stringent, in accordance with section 9004 of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991c, and 40 CFR part 281, subpart E. If Louisiana obtains approval for the revised requirements pursuant to section 9004 of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991c, the newly approved statutory and regulatory provisions will be added to this subpart and notice of any change will be published in the _Federal Register_.


(d) *Final program approval.* Louisiana has final approval for the following elements of its program application originally submitted to EPA and approved effective September 4, 1992, and the program revision application approved by EPA effective on August 3, 2020.


(1) *State statutes and regulations*—(i) *Incorporation by reference.* The provisions cited in this paragraph (d)(1)(i) are incorporated by reference as part of the underground storage tank program under subtitle I of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991 *et seq.* The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain copies of Louisiana UST regulations that are incorporated by reference in this paragraph (d)(1)(i) from the Louisiana Office of the State Register, P.O. Box 94095, Baton Rouge, LA 70804-9095; Phone number: (225) 342-5015; website: *https://www.doa.la.gov/Pages/osr/lac/LAC-33.aspx;* or Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality's website: *http://www.deq.louisiana.gov/resources/category/regulations-lac-title-33.* You may inspect all approved material at the EPA Region 6, 1201 Elm Street, Suite #500, Dallas, Texas 75270 (phone number (214) 665-2239) or the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of the material at NARA, email *fedreg.legal@nara.gov* or go to *http://www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.*

(A) “Louisiana Regulatory Requirements Applicable to the Underground Storage Tank Program, September 2019”. Those provisions are listed in appendix A to this part.


(B) [Reserved]


(ii) *Legal basis.* EPA evaluated the following statutes and regulations which provide the legal basis for the State's implementation of the underground storage tank program, but they are not being incorporated by reference and do not replace Federal authorities:


(A) The statutory provisions include:


(*1*) Louisiana Revised Statutes, Title 30, Subtitle II, Environmental Quality (Environmental Quality Act):


(*i*) Chapter 2. Department of Environmental Quality, Section 2011. Department of Environmental Quality created; duties; powers; structure, paragraphs (A) through (C), (D) introductory paragraph through (D)(10), (D)(13) through (D)(15), (D)(17) through (D)(23), (D)(25), and (E) through (G); Section 2012. Enforcement inspections; Section 2025. Enforcement; Section 2026. Citizen suits; Section 2030. Confidential information; restricted access via the internet; Section 2043. Public records; forms and methods; electronic signatures.


(*ii*) Chapter 2-A. Enforcement Procedure and Judicial Law, Section 2050.4. Enforcement; final action; Section 2050.7. Enforcement; settlement or compromise; Section 2050.8. Enforcement; cease and desist orders.


(*iii*) Chapter 4. Louisiana Water Control Law, Section 2077. Remediation of pollution;


(*iv*) Chapter 9. Hazardous Waste Control Law, Section 2194. Underground Storage Tanks; registration, paragraphs (C) introductory paragraph, (B)(6), (B)(8), (B)(9), (B)(15), and (C) through (E); Section 2194.1. Prohibitions; Section 2195.9 Financial responsibility; 2195.10 Financial responsibility for noncompliance; 2195.11 Voluntary cleanup; private contracts; exemptions.


(*v*) Chapter 12, Liability for Hazardous Substance Remedial Action, Part I. General provisions, Section 2277. Defenses, Subsection (4).


(*2*) Louisiana Code of Civil Procedure Section 4 Intervention, Article 1091 Third person may intervene.


(B) The regulatory provisions include:


(*1*) Louisiana Administrative Code, Title 33; effective September 20, 2018:


(*i*) Part I. Office of the Secretary, Chapter 7—Penalty Regulations, Chapter 8—Expedited Penalty Regulations, Chapter 13—Risk Evaluation/Corrective Action Program Regulations, Chapter 39—Notification Regulations and procedures for Unauthorized Discharges, section 3915 Notification Requirements for Unauthorized Discharges That Cause Emergency Conditions and section 3923 Notification Requirements for Other Regulatorily Required Reporting.


(*ii*) Part XI. Underground Storage Tanks, Chapter 3, section 301.C.9 through C.12; Chapter 4 Delivery Prohibition, section 401 purpose and section 403 delivery prohibition of regulated substances to underground storage tank systems; Chapter 7. Methods of Release Detection and Release reporting, Investigation, Confirmation, and Response, section 715.H public participation; Chapter 15. Enforcement.


(*2*) [Reserved]


(iii) *Provisions not incorporated by reference.* The following specifically identified sections and rules applicable to the Louisiana underground storage tank program are broader in coverage than the Federal program, are not part of the approved program, and are not incorporated by reference in this section for enforcement purposes:


(A) Louisiana Revised Statutes, Title 30, Subtitle II, Environmental Quality (Environmental Quality Act).


(B) Louisiana Administrative Code, Title 33, Part XI. Underground Storage Tanks, Chapter 1, Section 103, definitions of *owner (as it refers to operators, lessees, or lessors as owners), on staff, registered tank, registration certificate, response action contractor,* and *technical services;* Chapter 3, Sections 301. C.6, Section 307; Chapter 7, Section 715.A; Chapter 11, Section 1121; Chapter 12; Chapter 13.


(2) *Statement of legal authority.* The Attorney General's Statements, signed by the Attorney General of Louisiana on September 12, 1991 and September 27, 2018, though not incorporated by reference, are referenced as part of the approved underground storage tank program under subtitle I of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991 *et seq.*

(3) *Demonstration of procedures for adequate enforcement.* The “Demonstration of Procedures for Adequate Enforcement” submitted as part of the original application on October 9, 1991 and as part of the program revision application for approval on October 2, 2018 though not incorporated by reference, is referenced as part of the approved underground storage tank program under subtitle I of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991 *et seq.*

(4) *Program description.* The program description and any other material submitted as part of the original application on October 9, 1991 and as part of the program revision application on October 2, 2018, though not incorporated by reference, are referenced as part of the approved underground storage tank program under subtitle I of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991 *et seq.*

(5) *Memorandum of Agreement.* The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region 6 and the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on May 8, 2019 though not incorporated by reference, is referenced as part of the approved underground storage tank program under subtitle I of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991 *et seq.*


---

[N] [85 FR 34368, June 4, 2020]




