# § 200.1545   Appeals of MAP Lender Review Board decisions.

(a) *Request for appeal.* Whenever the Board imposes a sanction of probation, suspension, or termination against a MAP lender, the lender may request, in writing, an appeal conference before the appeals official. The MAP lender must deliver the written request for an appeal to the appeals official within 10 business days after the date noted on the notice of action or the right to an appeal is deemed waived. Participation in the appeal process under this section is not a prerequisite to filing an action for judicial review under the Administrative Procedure Act.


(b) *Appeals Official.* The appeals official must be an individual who has not been previously involved with the proceedings or settlement discussions at issue.


(c) *Notice of action in effect.* The notice of action issued by the Board remains in effect while the appeal is pending.


(d) *Scheduling of appeal.* (1) Upon receipt of the request for an appeal, the appeals official will promptly notify the MAP lender of the time and place of the appeal conference. The appeal conference will be held within 10 business days after receipt of the MAP lender's appeal request, except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.


(2) A MAP lender may request, and the appeals official may agree, to have an appeal conference held more than 10, but not more than 30 business days after the date of the lender's request for an appeal.


(e) *Scope of appeal.* The appeals official may consider information included in the administrative record and any new information presented at the appeal conference that is substantiated in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section. In addition, the appeals official may consider voluntary admissions by the lender or a representative of the lender of any element of the violation charged.


(f) *Additional documents*—(1) *Transcript.* No transcript of the appeal conference will be made, unless the MAP lender elects to have a transcript made by a certified court reporter at its own expense. If the lender elects to have a transcript made, it must provide three copies of the transcript to the appeals official within five business days after the date of the appeal conference.


(2) *Other documents.* Any additional, relevant documents or written arguments that the MAP lender wishes to present to the appeals official must be presented within five business days after the date of the appeal conference.


(g) *Determination of appeal.* Within 10 business days after the date of the appeal conference or the expiration of the period allowed for the submission of documents and written arguments, whichever is later, the appeals official will make a written determination to confirm, modify, or overturn the Board's decision and notice of action. If the appeals official overturns the Board's decision, the lender shall immediately return to an active status as a MAP lender and the written determination to overturn will be posted on HUD's MAP Web site.




