# § 721.11585   Benzenepropanoic acid, 3-(2H-benzotriazol-2-yl)-5-(1,1-dimethylethyl)-4-hydroxy-, 2,2-bis(hydroxymethyl)butyl ester.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as benzenepropanoic acid, 3-(2H-benzotriazol-2-yl)-5-(1,1-dimethylethyl)-4-hydroxy-, 2,2-bis(hydroxymethyl)butyl ester (PMN P-18-310; CAS No. 2101609-93-0) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new use described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to quantities of the PMN substance after they have been completely reacted (cured).


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i) through (iii), (a)(3) through (6), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1) and (a)(4), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible. For purposes of § 721.63(a)(5), respirators must provide a National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) assigned protection factor (APF) of at least 1,000. For purposes of § 721.63(a)(6), the airborne form(s) of the substance include gas/vapor and particulate.


(A) As an alternative to the respirator requirements in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, a manufacturer or processor may choose to follow the new chemical exposure limit (NCEL) provision listed in the TSCA section 5(e) consent order for this substance. The NCEL is 0.16 mg/m
3 as an 8-hour time-weighted average. Persons who wish to pursue NCELs as an alternative to § 721.63 respirator requirements may request to do so under § 721.30. Persons whose § 721.30 requests to use the NCELs approach are approved by EPA will be required to follow NCELs provisions comparable to those contained in the corresponding TSCA section 5(e) consent order.


(B) [Reserved]


(ii) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (f), (g)(1), (g)(3)(ii), and (g)(5). For purposes of § 721.72(e), the concentration is set at 1.0%. For purposes of § 721.72(g)(1), this substance may cause: specific target organ toxicity; reproductive toxicity. Alternative hazard and warning statements that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used.


(iii) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(4), (b)(4) and (c)(4), where N = 1.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (h), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitation or revocation of certain modification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.





---

[N] [87 FR 73946, Dec. 2, 2022]










