# § 414.1300   Basis and scope.

(a) *Basis.* This subpart implements the following provisions of the Act:


(1) Section 1833(z)—Incentive Payments for Participation in Eligible Alternative Payment Models.


(2) Section 1848(k)—Quality Reporting System.


(3) Section 1848(m)—Incentive Payments for Quality Reporting.


(4) Section 1848(q)—Merit-based Incentive Payment System.


(b) *Scope.* This subpart part sets forth the following:


(1) The circumstances under which eligible clinicians are not considered MIPS eligible clinicians with respect to a year.


(2) How individual MIPS eligible clinicians can have their performance assessed as a group.


(3) The data submission methods and data submission criteria for each of the MIPS performance categories.


(4) Methods for calculating a performance category score for each of the MIPS performance categories.


(5) Methods for calculating a MIPS final score and applying the MIPS payment adjustment to MIPS eligible clinicians.


(6) Requirements for an APM to be designated an “Advanced APM.”


(7) Methods for eligible clinicians and entities participating in Advanced APMs to meet the participation thresholds to become Qualifying APM Participants (QPs) and Partial QPs.


(8) Methods and processes for counting participation in Other Payer Advanced APMs in making QP and Partial QP determinations.


(9) Methods for calculating and paying the APM Incentive Payment to QPs.


(10) Criteria for Physician-Focused Payment Models (PFPMs).



---

[N] [81 FR 77537, Nov. 4, 2016, as amended at 86 FR 65669, Nov. 19, 2021]




