# ยง 102.1   Terms defined in Section 2 of the Act.

(a) *Definition of terms.* The terms *person, employer, employee, representative, labor organization, commerce, affecting commerce,* and *unfair labor practice* as used herein have the meanings set forth in Section 2 of the National Labor Relations Act, as amended by title I of the Labor Management Relations Act, 1947.


(b) *Act, Board, and Board agent.* The term *Act* means the National Labor Relations Act, as amended. The term *Board* means the National Labor Relations Board and must include any group of three or more Members designated pursuant to Section 3(b) of the Act. The term *Board agent* means any Member, agent, or agency of the Board, including its General Counsel.


(c) *General Counsel.* The term *General Counsel* means the General Counsel under Section 3(d) of the Act.


(d) *Region and Subregion.* The term *Region* means that part of the United States or any territory thereof fixed by the Board as a particular Region. The term *Subregion* means that area within a Region fixed by the Board as a particular *Subregion.*

(e) *Regional Director, Officer-in-Charge, and Regional Attorney.* The term *Regional Director* means the agent designated by the Board as the Regional Director for a particular Region, and also includes any agent designated by the Board as Officer-in-Charge of a Subregional office, but the Officer-in-Charge must have only such powers, duties, and functions appertaining to Regional Directors as have been duly delegated to such Officer-in-Charge. The term *Regional Attorney* means the attorney designated as Regional Attorney for a particular Region.


(f) *Administrative Law Judge and Hearing Officer.* The term *Administrative Law Judge* means the agent of the Board conducting the hearing in an unfair labor practice proceeding. The term *Hearing Officer* means the agent of the Board conducting the hearing in a proceeding under Section 9 or in a dispute proceeding under Section 10(k) of the Act.


(g) *State.* The term *State* includes the District of Columbia and all States, territories, and possessions of the United States.


(h) *Party.* The term *party* means the Regional Director in whose Region the proceeding is pending and any person named or admitted as a party, or properly seeking and entitled as of right to be admitted as a party, in any Board proceeding, including, without limitation, any person filing a charge or petition under the Act, any person named as Respondent, as employer, or as party to a contract in any proceeding under the Act, and any labor organization alleged to be dominated, assisted, or supported in violation of Section 8(a)(1) or 8(a)(2) of the Act; but nothing herein should be construed to prevent the Board or its designated agent from limiting any party to participate in the proceedings to the extent of the party's interest only.


(i) *Business day.* The term *business day* means days that Agency offices are open normal business operating hours, which is Monday through Friday, excluding Federal holidays. A list of Federal holidays can be found at *www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/snow-dismissal-procedures/federal-holidays/.*


---

[N] [82 FR 11751, Feb. 24, 2017, as amended at 84 FR 69588, Dec. 18, 2019]




