# ยง 71.97   Advance notification of shipment of irradiated reactor fuel and nuclear waste.

(a)(1) As specified in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section, each licensee shall provide advance notification to the governor of a State, or the governor's designee, of the shipment of licensed material, within or across the boundary of the State, before the transport, or delivery to a carrier, for transport, of licensed material outside the confines of the licensee's plant or other place of use or storage.


(2) As specified in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section, after June 11, 2013, each licensee shall provide advance notification to the Tribal official of participating Tribes referenced in paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section, or the official's designee, of the shipment of licensed material, within or across the boundary of the Tribe's reservation, before the transport, or delivery to a carrier, for transport, of licensed material outside the confines of the licensee's plant or other place of use or storage.


(b) Advance notification is also required under this section for the shipment of licensed material, other than irradiated fuel, meeting the following three conditions:


(1) The licensed material is required by this part to be in Type B packaging for transportation; 


(2) The licensed material is being transported to or across a State boundary en route to a disposal facility or to a collection point for transport to a disposal facility; and 


(3) The quantity of licensed material in a single package exceeds the least of the following: 


(i) 3000 times the A_1_ value of the radionuclides as specified in appendix A, Table A-1 for special form radioactive material; 


(ii) 3000 times the A_2_ value of the radionuclides as specified in appendix A, Table A-1 for normal form radioactive material; or 


(iii) 1000 TBq (27,000 Ci). 


(c) *Procedures for submitting advance notification.* (1) The notification must be made in writing to:


(i) The office of each appropriate governor or governor's designee;


(ii) The office of each appropriate Tribal official or Tribal official's designee; and


(iii) The Director, Office of Nuclear Security and Incident Response.


(2) A notification delivered by mail must be postmarked at least 7 days before the beginning of the 7-day period during which departure of the shipment is estimated to occur. 


(3) A notification delivered by any other means than mail must reach the office of the governor or of the governor's designee or the Tribal official or Tribal official's designee at least 4 days before the beginning of the 7-day period during which departure of the shipment is estimated to occur.


(i) [Reserved]

(ii) Contact information for each State, including telephone and mailing addresses of governors and governors' designees, and participating Tribes, including telephone and mailing addresses of Tribal officials and Tribal official's designees, is available on the NRC Web site at: *https://scp.nrc.gov/special/designee.pdf.*

(iii) A list of the names and mailing addresses of the governors' designees and Tribal officials' designees of participating Tribes is available on request from the Director, Division of Materials Safety, Security, State, and Tribal Programs, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001.


(4) The licensee shall retain a copy of the notification as a record for 3 years. 


(d) *Information to be furnished in advance notification of shipment.* Each advance notification of shipment of irradiated reactor fuel or nuclear waste must contain the following information: 


(1) The name, address, and telephone number of the shipper, carrier, and receiver of the irradiated reactor fuel or nuclear waste shipment; 


(2) A description of the irradiated reactor fuel or nuclear waste contained in the shipment, as specified in the regulations of DOT in 49 CFR 172.202 and 172.203(d); 


(3) The point of origin of the shipment and the 7-day period during which departure of the shipment is estimated to occur; 


(4) The 7-day period during which arrival of the shipment at State boundaries or Tribal reservation boundaries is estimated to occur;


(5) The destination of the shipment, and the 7-day period during which arrival of the shipment is estimated to occur; and 


(6) A point of contact, with a telephone number, for current shipment information. 


(e) *Revision notice.* A licensee who finds that schedule information previously furnished to a governor or governor's designee or a Tribal official or Tribal official's designee, in accordance with this section, will not be met, shall telephone a responsible individual in the office of the governor of the State or of the governor's designee or the Tribal official or the Tribal official's designee and inform that individual of the extent of the delay beyond the schedule originally reported. The licensee shall maintain a record of the name of the individual contacted for 3 years.


(f) *Cancellation notice.* (1) Each licensee who cancels an irradiated reactor fuel or nuclear waste shipment for which advance notification has been sent shall send a cancellation notice to the governor of each State or to the governor's designee previously notified, each Tribal official or to the Tribal official's designee previously notified, and to the Director, Office of Nuclear Security and Incident Response.


(2) The licensee shall state in the notice that it is a cancellation and identify the advance notification that is being canceled. The licensee shall retain a copy of the notice as a record for 3 years. 



---

[N] [60 FR 50264, Sept. 28, 1995, as amended at 67 FR 3586, Jan. 25, 2002; 68 FR 14529, Mar. 26, 2003; 68 FR 23575, May 5, 2003; 68 FR 58818, Oct. 10, 2003; 74 FR 62683, Dec. 1, 2009; 75 FR 73945, Nov. 30, 2010; 77 FR 34204, June 11, 2012; 78 FR 17021, Mar. 19, 2013; 79 FR 75741, Dec. 19, 2014; 80 FR 74981, Dec. 1, 2015; 83 FR 30288, June 28, 2018; 83 FR 58723, Nov. 21, 2018; 85 FR 65663, Oct. 16, 2020]




