# § 905.306   Obligation and expenditure of Capital Fund grants.

(a) *Obligation.* A PHA shall obligate each Capital Fund grant, including formula grants, Replacement Housing Factor (RHF) grants, Demolition and Disposition Transitional Funding (DDTF) grants, and natural disaster grants, no later than 24 months after, and emergency grants no later than 12 months after, the date on which the funds become available to the PHA for obligation, except as provided in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section. However, a PHA with unobligated funds from a grant shall disregard this requirement for up to not more than 10 percent of the originally allocated funds from that grant. The funds become available to the PHA when HUD executes the CF ACC Amendment. With HUD approval, and subject to the availability of appropriations, the PHA can accumulate RHF grants for up to 5 years or until it has adequate funds to undertake replacement housing. The PHA shall obligate 90 percent of the RHF grant within 24 months from the date that the PHA accumulates adequate funds, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section.


(b) *Items and costs.* For funds to be considered obligated, all items and costs must meet the definition of “obligation” in § 905.108 of this part.


(c) *Extension to obligation requirement.* The PHA may request an extension of the obligation deadline, and HUD may grant an extension for a period of up to 12 months, based on:


(1) The size of the PHA;


(2) The complexity of the CFP of the PHA;


(3) Any limitation on the ability of the PHA to obligate the amounts allocated for the PHA from the Capital Fund in a timely manner as a result of state or local law; or


(4) Any other factors that HUD determines to be relevant.


(d) *HUD extension for other reasons.* HUD may extend the obligation deadline for a PHA for such a period as HUD determines to be necessary, if HUD determines that the failure of the PHA to obligate assistance in a timely manner is attributable to:


(1) Litigation;


(2) Delay in obtaining approvals from the Federal Government or a state or local government that is not the fault of the PHA;


(3) Compliance with environmental assessment and abatement requirements;


(4) Relocating residents;


(5) An event beyond the control of the PHA; or


(6) Any other reason established by HUD by notice in the _Federal Register._

(e) *Failure to obligate.* (1) For any month during the fiscal year, HUD shall withhold all new Capital Fund grants from any PHA that has unobligated funds in violation of paragraph (a) of this section. The penalty will be imposed once the violations of paragraph (a) are known. The PHA may cure the noncompliance by:


(i) Requesting in writing that HUD recapture the unobligated balance of the grant; or


(ii) Continuing to obligate funds for the grant in noncompliance until the noncompliance is cured.


(2) After the PHA has cured the noncompliance, HUD will release the withheld Capital Fund grant(s) minus a penalty of one-twelfth of the grant for each month of noncompliance.


(f) *Expenditure.* The PHA shall expend all grant funds within 48 months after the date on which funds become available, as described in paragraph (a) of this section. The deadline to expend funds may be extended only by the period of time of a HUD-approved extension of the obligation deadline. No other extensions of the expenditure deadline will be granted. All funds not expended will be recaptured.




