# § 940.3   Definitions.

*Intelligent Transportation System (ITS)* means electronics, communications, or information processing used singly or in combination to improve the efficiency or safety of a surface transportation system. 


*ITS project* means any project that in whole or in part funds the acquisition of technologies or systems of technologies that provide or significantly contribute to the provision of one or more ITS user services as defined in the National ITS Architecture. 


*Major ITS project* means any ITS project that implements part of a regional ITS initiative that is multi-jurisdictional, multi-modal, or otherwise affects regional integration of ITS systems. 


*National ITS Architecture* (also “national architecture”) means a common framework for ITS interoperability. The National ITS Architecture comprises the logical architecture and physical architecture which satisfy a defined set of user services. The National ITS Architecture is maintained by the United States Department of Transportation (DOT) and is available on the DOT web site at *http://www.its.dot.gov.*

*Project level ITS architecture* is a framework that identifies the institutional agreement and technical integration necessary to interface a major ITS project with other ITS projects and systems. 


*Region* is the geographical area that identifies the boundaries of the regional ITS architecture and is defined by and based on the needs of the participating agencies and other stakeholders. In metropolitan areas, a region should be no less than the boundaries of the metropolitan planning area. 


*Regional ITS architecture* means a regional framework for ensuring institutional agreement and technical integration for the implementation of ITS projects or groups of projects. 


*Systems engineering* is a structured process for arriving at a final design of a system. The final design is selected from a number of alternatives that would accomplish the same objectives and considers the total life-cycle of the project including not only the technical merits of potential solutions but also the costs and relative value of alternatives. 




