# § 98.56   Restrictions on the use of funds.

(a) *General.* (1) Funds authorized under section 418 of the Social Security Act and section 658B of the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act, and all funds transferred to the Lead Agency pursuant to section 404(d) of the Social Security Act, shall be expended consistent with these regulations. Funds transferred pursuant to section 404(d) of the Social Security Act shall be treated as Discretionary Funds;


(2) Funds shall be expended in accordance with applicable State and local laws, except as superseded by § 98.3.


(b) *Construction.* (1) For State and local agencies and nonsectarian agencies or organizations, no funds shall be expended for the purchase or improvement of land, or for the purchase, construction, or permanent improvement of any building or facility. However, funds may be expended for minor remodeling, and for upgrading child care facilities to assure that providers meet State and local child care standards, including applicable health and safety requirements. Improvements or upgrades to a facility which are not specified under the definitions of construction or major renovation at § 98.2 may be considered minor remodeling and are, therefore, not prohibited.


(2) For sectarian agencies or organizations, the prohibitions in paragraph (b)(1) of this section apply; however, funds may be expended for minor remodeling only if necessary to bring the facility into compliance with the health and safety requirements established pursuant to § 8.41.


(3) Tribes and tribal organizations are subject to the requirements at § 98.84 regarding construction and renovation.


(c) *Tuition.* Funds may not be expended for students enrolled in grades 1 through 12 for:


(1) Any service provided to such students during the regular school day;


(2) Any service for which such students receive academic credit toward graduation; or


(3) Any instructional services that supplant or duplicate the academic program of any public or private school.


(d) *Sectarian purposes and activities.* Funds provided under grants or contracts to providers may not be expended for any sectarian purpose or activity, including sectarian worship or instruction. Assistance provided to parents through certificates is not a grant or contract. Funds provided through child care certificates may be expended for sectarian purposes or activities, including sectarian worship or instruction when provided as part of the child care services.


(e) *Non-Federal share for other Federal programs.* The CCDF may not be used as the non-Federal share for other Federal grant programs, unless explicitly authorized by statute.



---

[N] [63 FR 39981, July 24, 1998. Redesignated and amended at 81 FR 67588, 67590, Sept. 30, 2016]




