# § 5.62   How do I file an appeal?

(a) You have the right to appeal an adverse agency determination of your FOIA request.


(b) You may submit your appeal via mail or electronically.


(1) Please send your appeal to the review official at the address provided in your denial letter. If you are unsure who is the appropriate review official, please contact the FOIA Requester Service Center that processed your request to obtain that information.


(2) The addresses to mail FOIA appeals for CMS and OS are, respectively: Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Attn: Principal Deputy Administrator, Room C5-16- 03, 7500 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, MD 21244; and U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Deputy Agency Chief FOIA Officer, Office of the Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs, Room 729H, 200 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20201. Additionally, information, including how to submit a FOIA appeal electronically, can be found at the following online locations for CMS and OS: *https://www.cms.gov/Regulations-and-Guidance/Legislation/FOIA/filehow.html* and *https://requests.publiclink.hhs.gov/palMain.aspx.*

(3) When submitting an appeal, you should mark both your letter and envelope with the words “FOIA Appeal” or include the words “FOIA Appeal” in the subject line of your email. You should also include your FOIA request tracking number, a copy of your initial request, and a copy of our final determination letter.


(c) Your appeal should clearly identify the agency determination that is being appealed. It would be helpful if you provide specific reasons explaining why you believe the agency's adverse determination should be reconsidered.




