# § 61.343   Standards: Tanks.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section and in § 61.351, the owner or operator must meet the standards in paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section for each tank in which the waste stream is placed in accordance with § 61.342 (c)(1)(ii). The standards in this section apply to the treatment and storage of the waste stream in a tank, including dewatering. 


(1) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain a fixed-roof and closed-vent system that routes all organic vapors vented from the tank to a control device.


(i) The fixed-roof shall meet the following requirements:


(A) The cover and all openings (e.g., access hatches, sampling ports, and gauge wells) shall be designed to operate with no detectable emissions as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppmv above background, as determined initially and thereafter at least once per year by the methods specified in § 61.355(h) of this subpart.


(B) Each opening shall be maintained in a closed, sealed position (e.g., covered by a lid that is gasketed and latched) at all times that waste is in the tank except when it is necessary to use the opening for waste sampling or removal, or for equipment inspection, maintenance, or repair.


(C) If the cover and closed-vent system operate such that the tank is maintained at a pressure less than atmospheric pressure, then paragraph (a)(1)(i)(B) of this section does not apply to any opening that meets all of thefollowing conditions: 


(*1*) The purpose of the opening is to provide dilution air to reduce the explosion hazard; 


(*2*) The opening is designed to operate with no detectable emissions as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppmv above background, as determined initially and thereafter at least once per year by the methods specified in § 61.355(h); and 


(*3*) The pressure is monitored continuously to ensure that the pressure in the tank remains below atmospheric pressure. 


(ii) The closed-vent system and control device shall be designed and operated in accordance with the requirements of § 61.349 of this subpart.


(2) The owner or operator must install, operate, and maintain an enclosure and closed-vent system that routes all organic vapors vented from the tank, located inside the enclosure, to a control device in accordance with the requirements specified in paragraph (e) of this section.


(b) For a tank that meets all the conditions specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the owner or operator may elect to comply with paragraph (b)(2) of this section as an alternative to the requirements specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. 


(1) The waste managed in the tank complying with paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall meet all of the following conditions: 


(i) Each waste stream managed in the tank must have a flow-weighted annual average water content less than or equal to 10 percent water, on a volume basis as total water. 


(ii) The waste managed in the tank either: 


(A) Has a maximum organic vapor pressure less than 5.2 kilopascals (kPa) (0.75 pounds per square inch (psi)); 


(B) Has a maximum organic vapor pressure less than 27.6 kPa (4.0 psi) and is managed in a tank having design capacity less than 151 m
3 (40,000 gal); or 


(C) Has a maximum organic vapor pressure less than 76.6 kPa (11.1 psi) and is managed in a tank having a design capacity less than 75 m
3 (20,000 gal). 


(2) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain a fixed roof as specified in paragraph (a)(1)(i). 


(3) For each tank complying with paragraph (b) of this section, one or more devices which vent directly to the atmosphere may be used on the tank provided each device remains in a closed, sealed position during normal operations except when the device needs to open to prevent physical damage or permanent deformation of the tank or cover resulting from filling or emptying the tank, diurnal temperature changes, atmospheric pressure changes or malfunction of the unit in accordance with good engineering and safety practices for handling flammable, explosive, or other hazardous materials. 


(c) Each fixed-roof, seal, access door, and all other openings shall be checked by visual inspection initially and quarterly thereafter to ensure that no cracks or gaps occur and that access doors and other openings are closed and gasketed properly. 


(d) Except as provided in § 61.350 of this subpart, when a broken seal or gasket or other problem is identified, or when detectable emissions are measured, first efforts at repair shall be made as soon as practicable, but not later than 45 calendar days after identification.


(e) Each owner or operator who controls air pollutant emissions by using an enclosure vented through a closed-vent system to a control device must meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (4) of this section.


(1) The tank must be located inside a total enclosure. The enclosure must be designed and operated in accordance with the criteria for a permanent total enclosure as specified in “Procedure T—Criteria for and Verification of a Permanent or Temporary Total Enclosure” in 40 CFR 52.741, appendix B. The enclosure may have permanent or temporary openings to allow worker access; passage of material into or out of the enclosure by conveyor, vehicles, or other mechanical means; entry of permanent mechanical or electrical equipment; or direct airflow into the enclosure. The owner or operator must perform the verification procedure for the enclosure as specified in section 5.0 of Procedure T initially when the enclosure is first installed and, thereafter, annually. A facility that has conducted an initial compliance demonstration and that performs annual compliance demonstrations in accordance with the requirements for Tank Level 2 control requirements 40 CFR 264.1084(i) or 40 CFR 265(i) is not required to make repeat demonstrations of initial and continuous compliance for the purposes of this subpart. 


(2) The enclosure must be vented through a closed-vent system to a control device that is designed and operated in accordance with the standards for control devices specified in § 61.349.


(3) Safety devices, as defined in this subpart, may be installed and operated as necessary on any enclosure, closed-vent system, or control device used to comply with the requirements of paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section. 


(4) The closed-vent system must be designed and operated in accordance with the requirements of § 61.349.



---

[N] [55 FR 8346, Mar. 7, 1990, as amended at 55 FR 18331, May 2, 1990; 58 FR 3096, Jan. 7, 1993; 67 FR 68532, Nov. 12, 2002; 68 FR 6082, Feb. 6, 2003; 68 FR 67935, Dec. 4, 2003]




