# ยง 721.1637   1,2-Propanediol, 3-(2-propenyloxy)-, bis(4-methylbenzene sulfonate); 2-propanol, 1-[2-[[(4-methylphenyl)sulfonyl] oxy]ethoxy]-3-(2-propenyloxy)-4-methylbenzenesulfonate; and 2-propanol, 1-[2-[2-[[(4-methylphenyl)sulfonyl]oxy] ethoxy]ethoxy]-3-(2-propenyloxy)-, 4-methylbenzenesulfonate.

(a) *Chemical substances and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substances 1,2-propanediol, 3-(2-propenyloxy)-, bis(4-methylbenzenesulfonate) (PMN P-93-1198, CAS no. 114719-19-6), 2-propanol, 1-[2-[[(4-methylphenyl)sulfonyl]oxy]ethoxy]-3-(2-propenyloxy)-4-methylbenzenesulfonate (PMN P-93-1199, CAS no. 124213-39-4), and 2-propanol, 1-[2-[2-[[(4-methylphenyl)sulfonyl]oxy] ethoxy]ethoxy]-3-(2-propenyloxy)-, 4-methylbenzenesulfonate (PMN P-93-1200, CAS no. 124028-99-5) are subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. 


(2) The significant new uses are: 


(i) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in ยง 721.90 (a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1). 


(ii) [Reserved]


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in ยง 721.125 (a), (b), (c), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of these substances. 


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of ยง 721.185 apply to this section. 



---

[N] [59 FR 27482, May 27, 1994]




