# § 906.44   Safeguards.

(a) The committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may prescribe adequate safeguards to prevent the handling of fruit pursuant to § 906.41 or § 906.42 from entering channels of trade for other than the specific purpose authorized therefor, and rules governing the issuance and the contents of certificates of privilege if such certificates are prescribed as safeguards by the committee. Such safeguards may include requirements that:


(1) Handlers shall file applications with the committee to ship fruit pursuant to §§ 906.41 and 906.42.


(2) Handlers shall obtain inspection provided by § 906.45, or pay the assessment levied pursuant to § 906.34, or both, in connection with shipments made under § 906.42: *Provided,* That such inspection and assessment requirements shall not apply to fruit handled for canning or freezing.


(3) Handlers shall obtain certificates of privilege from the committee to handle fruit affected or to be affected under the provisions of §§ 906.41 and 906.42.


(b) The committee may rescind or deny certificates of privilege to any handler if proof is obtained that fruit handled by him for the purposes stated in §§ 906.41 and 906.42 was handled contrary to the provisions of this part.


(c) The Secretary shall have the right to modify, change, alter, or rescind any safeguards prescribed and any certificates issued by the committee pursuant to the provisions of this section.


(d) The committee shall make reports to the Secretary, as requested, showing the number of applications for such certificates, the quantity of fruit covered by such applications, the number of such applications denied and certificates granted, the quantity of fruit handled under duly issued certificates, and such other information as may be requested.




