# § 442.2   Terms.

In this part—


*Facility* refers to a nursing facility, and an intermediate care facility for Individuals with Intellectual Disabilities or persons with related conditions (ICF/IID).


*Facility,* and any specific type of facility referred to, may include a distinct part of a facility as specified in § 440.40 or § 440.150 of this subchapter. 


*Immediate jeopardy* means a situation in which immediate corrective action is necessary because the provider's noncompliance with one or more requirements of participation or conditions of participation has caused, or is likely to cause, serious injury, harm, impairment, or death to an individual receiving care in a facility. 


*New admission* means the admission of a Medicaid beneficiary who has never been in the facility or, if previously admitted, had been discharged or had voluntarily left the facility. The term does not include the following:


(a) Individuals who were in the facility before the effective date of denial of payment for new admissions, even if they become eligible for Medicaid after that date.


(b) If the approved State plan includes payments for reserved beds, individuals who, after a temporary absence from the facility, are readmitted to beds reserved for them in accordance with § 447.40(a) of this chapter.



---

[N] [43 FR 45233, Sept. 29, 1978, as amended at 51 FR 24491, July 3, 1986; 53 FR 1993, Jan. 25, 1988; 54 FR 5358, Feb. 2, 1989; 56 FR 48865, Sept. 26, 1991; 59 FR 56235, Nov. 10, 1994]




