# ยง 201.50   Lender efforts to cure the default.

(a) *Personal contact with the borrower before acceleration and foreclosure or repossession.* The lender shall undertake foreclosure or repossession of the property securing a Title I loan that is in default only after the lender has serviced the loan in a timely manner and with diligence in accordance with the requirements of this part, and has taken all reasonable and prudent measures to induce the borrower to bring the loan account current. Before taking action to accelerate the maturity of the loan, the lender or its agent shall contact the borrower and any co-maker or co-signer, either in a face-to-face meeting or by telephone, to discuss the reasons for the default and to seek its cure. If the borrower and the co-makers or co-signers cannot be located, will not discuss the default, or will not agree to its cure, the lender may proceed to take action under paragraph (b) of this section. The lender shall document the results of its efforts to contact the borrower and any co-maker or co-signer, and shall place in the loan file a copy of any modification agreement or repayment plan that has been offered. 


(b) *Notice of default and acceleration.* Unless the borrower cures the default or agrees to a modification agreement or repayment plan, the lender shall provide the borrower with written notice that the loan is in default and that the loan maturity is to be accelerated. In addition to complying with applicable State or local notice requirements, the notice shall be sent by certified mail and shall contain:


(1) A description of the obligation or security interest held by the lender;


(2) A statement of the nature of the default and of the amount due to the lender as unpaid principal and earned interest on the note as of the date 30 days from the date of the notice;


(3) A demand upon the borrower either to cure the default (by bringing the loan current or by refinancing the loan) or to agree to a modification agreement or a repayment plan, by not later than the date 30 days from the date of the notice;


(4) A statement that if the borrower fails either to cure the default or to agree to a modification agreement or a repayment plan by the date 30 days from the date of the notice, then, as of the date 30 days from the date of the notice, the maturity of the loan is accelerated and full payment of all amounts due under the loan is required;


(5) A statement that if the default persists the lender will report the default to an appropriate credit reporting agency; and


(6) Any other requirements prescribed by the Secretary.


(c) *Reinstatement of the loan.* The lender may rescind the acceleration of maturity after full payment is due and reinstate the loan only if the borrower brings the loan current, executes a modification agreement, or agrees to an acceptable repayment plan.


(d) *Notice to credit reporting agency.* If the loan maturity is accelerated and the loan is not reinstated, the lender shall report the default to an appropriate credit reporting agency.



---

[N] [50 FR 43523, Oct. 25, 1985, as amended at 52 FR 33407, Sept. 3, 1987; 56 FR 52434, Oct. 18, 1991; 57 FR 6480, Feb. 25, 1992]




