# § 86.136-90   Engine starting and restarting.

(a) *Otto-cycle vehicles.* Paragraph (a) of this section applies to Otto-cycle vehicles.


(1) The engine shall be started according to the manufacturer's recommended starting procedures in the owner's manual. The initial 20-second idle period shall begin when the engine starts.


(2) *Choke operation:* (i) Vehicles equipped with automatic chokes shall be operated according to the manufacturer's operating instructions in the owner's manual, including choke setting and “kick-down” from cold fast idle.


(ii) Vehicles equipped with manual chokes shall be operated according to the manufacturer's operating instructions in the owner's manual.


(3) The transmission shall be placed in gear 15 seconds after the engine is started. If necessary, braking may be employed to keep the drive wheels from turning.


(4) The operator may use the choke, accelerator pedal, etc., where necessary to keep the engine running.


(5) If the manufacturer's operating instructions in the owner's manual do not specify a warm engine starting procedure, the engine (automatic and manual-choke engines) shall be started by depressing the accelerator pedal about half way and cranking the engine until it starts.


(b) *Diesel vehicles.* The engine shall be started according to the manufacturers recommended starting procedures in the owners manual. The initial 20-second idle period shall begin when the engine starts. The transmission shall be placed in gear 15 seconds after the engine is started. If necessary, braking may be employed to keep the drive wheels from turning.


(c) If the vehicle does not start after the manufacturer's recommended cranking time (or 10 continuous seconds in the absence of a manufacturer's recommendation), cranking shall cease for the period recommended by the manufacturer (or 10 seconds in the absence of a manufacturer's recommendation). This may be repeated for up to three start attempts. If the vehicle does not start after three attempts, the reason for failure to start shall be determined. The gas flow measuring device on the constant volume sampler (usually a revolution counter) or CFV (and the hydrocarbon integrator and particulate sampling system when testing petroleum-fueled diesel vehicles and the particulate sampling system when testing methanol-fueled diesel vehicles, see § 86.137) shall be turned off and the sampler selector valves, including the methanol sampler, placed in the “standby” position during this diagnostic period. In addition, either the CVS should be turned off, or the exhaust tube disconnected from the tailpipe during the diagnostic period. If failure to start is an operational error, the vehicle shall be rescheduled for testing from a cold start.


(d) If the engine “false starts” the operator shall repeat the recommended starting procedure (such as resetting the choke, etc.).


(e) *Stalling.* (1) If the engine stalls during an idle period, the engine shall be restarted immediately and the test continued. If the engine cannot be started soon enough to allow the vehicle to follow the next acceleration as prescribed, the driving schedule indicator shall be stopped. When the vehicle restarts, the driving schedule indicator shall be reactivated.


(2) If the engine stalls during some operating mode other than idle, the driving schedule indicator shall be stopped, the vehicle shall then be restarted and accelerated to the speed required at that point in the driving schedule and the test continued. During acceleration to this point, shifting shall be performed in accordance with § 86.128.


(3) If the vehicle will not restart within one minute, the test shall be voided, the vehicle removed from the dynamometer, corrective action taken, and the vehicle rescheduled for test. The reason for the malfunction (if determined) and the corrective action taken shall be reported to the Administrator.



---

[N] [54 FR 14530, Apr. 11, 1989, as amended at 58 FR 16042, Mar. 24, 1993; 59 FR 48510, Sept. 21, 1994]




