# § 1.467-2   Rent accrual for section 467 rental agreements without adequate interest.

(a) *Section 467 rental agreements for which proportional rental accrual is required.* Under § 1.467-1(d)(2)(ii), the fixed rent for each rental period is the proportional rental amount, computed under paragraph (c) of this section, if—


(1) The section 467 rental agreement is not a disqualified leaseback or long-term agreement under § 1.467-3(b); and


(2) The section 467 rental agreement does not provide adequate interest on fixed rent under paragraph (b) of this section.


(b) *Adequate interest on fixed rent*—(1) *In general.* A section 467 rental agreement provides adequate interest on fixed rent if, disregarding any contingent rent—


(i) The rental agreement has no deferred or prepaid rent as described in § 1.467-1(c)(3);


(ii) The rental agreement has deferred or prepaid rent, and—


(A) The rental agreement provides interest (the stated rate of interest) on deferred or prepaid fixed rent at a single fixed rate (as defined in § 1.1273-1(c)(1)(iii));


(B) The stated rate of interest on fixed rent is no lower than 110 percent of the applicable Federal rate (as defined in paragraph (e)(3) of this section);


(C) The amount of deferred or prepaid fixed rent on which interest is charged is adjusted at least annually to reflect the amount of deferred or prepaid fixed rent as of a date no earlier than the date of the preceding adjustment and no later than the date of the succeeding adjustment; and


(D) The rental agreement requires interest to be paid or compounded at least annually;


(iii) The rental agreement provides for deferred rent but no prepaid rent, and the sum of the present values (within the meaning of paragraph (d) of this section) of all amounts payable by the lessee as fixed rent (and interest, if any, thereon) is equal to or greater than the sum of the present values of the fixed rent allocated to each rental period; or


(iv) The rental agreement provides for prepaid rent but no deferred rent, and the sum of the present values of all amounts payable by the lessee as fixed rent, plus the sum of the negative present values of all amounts payable by the lessor as interest, if any, on prepaid fixed rent, is equal to or less than the sum of the present values of the fixed rent allocated to each rental period.


(2) *Section 467 rental agreements that provide for a variable rate of interest.* For purposes of the adequate interest test under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, if a section 467 rental agreement provides for variable interest, the rental agreement is treated as providing for fixed rates of interest on deferred or prepaid fixed rent equal to the fixed rate substitutes (determined in the same manner as under § 1.1275-5(e), treating the agreement date as the issue date) for the variable rates called for by the rental agreement. For purposes of this section, a rental agreement provides for variable interest if all stated interest provided by the agreement is paid or compounded at least annually at a rate or rates that meet the requirements of § 1.1275-5(a)(3)(i)(A) or (B) and (a)(4).


(3) *Agreements with both deferred and prepaid rent.* If an agreement has both deferred and prepaid rent, the agreement provides adequate interest under paragraph (b)(1) of this section if the conditions set forth in paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section are met for both the prepaid and the deferred rent. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(3), an agreement will be considered to meet the condition set forth in paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(A) of this section if the agreement provides a single fixed rate of interest on the deferred rent and a single fixed rate of interest on the prepaid rent, even if those rates are not the same. This paragraph (b)(3) applies to section 467 rental agreements entered into after March 6, 2001. However, taxpayers may choose to apply this paragraph (b)(3) to any rental agreement that is described in § 1.467-9(a) and is entered into on or before March 6, 2001. 


(c) *Computation of proportional rental amount*—(1) *In general.* The proportional rental amount for a rental period is the amount of fixed rent allocated to the rental period under § 1.467-1(c)(2)(ii), multiplied by a fraction. The numerator of the fraction is the sum of the present values of the amounts payable under the terms of the section 467 rental agreement as fixed rent and interest thereon. The denominator of the fraction is the sum of the present values of the fixed rent allocated to each rental period under the rental agreement.


(2) *Section 467 rental agreements that provide for a variable rate of interest.* To calculate the proportional rental amount for a section 467 rental agreement that provides for a variable rate of interest, see § 1.467-5.


(d) *Present value.* For purposes of determining adequate interest under paragraph (b) of this section or the proportional rental amount under paragraph (c) of this section, the present value of any amount is determined using a discount rate equal to 110 percent of the applicable Federal rate. In general, present values are determined as of the first day of the first rental period in the lease term. However, if a section 467 rental agreement calls for payments of fixed rent prior to the lease term, present values are determined as of the first day a fixed rent payment is called for by the agreement. For purposes of the present value determination under paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section, the fixed rent allocated to a rental period must be discounted from the first day of the rental period. For other conventions and rules relating to the determination of present value, see § 1.467-1(g) and (j).


(e) *Applicable Federal rate*—(1) *In general.* The applicable Federal rate for a section 467 rental agreement is the applicable Federal rate in effect on the agreement date. The *applicable Federal rate* for a rental agreement means—


(i) The Federal short-term rate if the term of the rental agreement is not over 3 years;


(ii) The Federal mid-term rate if the term of the rental agreement is over 3 years but not over 9 years; and


(iii) The Federal long-term rate if the term of the rental agreement is over 9 years.


(2) *Source of applicable Federal rates.* The Internal Revenue Service publishes the applicable Federal rates, based on annual, semiannual, quarterly, and monthly compounding, each month in the Internal Revenue Bulletin (see § 601.601(d) of this chapter). However, the applicable Federal rates may be based on any compounding assumption. To convert a rate based on one compounding assumption to an equivalent rate based on a different compounding assumption, see § 1.1272-1(j), *Example 1.*

(3) *110 percent of applicable Federal rate.* For purposes of § 1.467-1, this section and §§ 1.467-3 through 1.467-9, 110 percent of the applicable Federal rate means 110 percent of the applicable Federal rate based on semiannual compounding or any rate based on a different compounding assumption that is equivalent to 110 percent of the applicable Federal rate based on semiannual compounding. The Internal Revenue Service publishes 110 percent of the applicable Federal rates, based on annual, semiannual, quarterly, and monthly compounding, each month in the Internal Revenue Bulletin (see § 601.601(d)(2) of this chapter).


(4) *Term of the section 467 rental agreement*—(i) *In general.* For purposes of determining the applicable Federal rate under this paragraph (e), the term of the section 467 rental agreement includes the lease term, any period before the lease term beginning with the first day an amount of fixed rent is payable under the terms of the rental agreement, and any period after the lease term ending with the last day an amount of fixed rent or interest thereon is payable under the rental agreement.


(ii) *Section 467 rental agreements with variable interest.* If a section 467 rental agreement provides variable interest on deferred or prepaid fixed rent, the term of the rental agreement for purposes of calculating the applicable Federal rate is the longest period between interest rate adjustment dates, or, if the rental agreement provides an initial fixed rate of interest on deferred or prepaid fixed rent, the period between the agreement date and the last day the fixed rate applies, if this period is longer. If, as described in § 1.1274-4(c)(2)(ii), the rental agreement provides for a qualified floating rate (as defined in § 1.1275-5(b)) that in substance resembles a fixed rate, the applicable Federal rate is determined by reference to the lease term.


(f) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the application of this section. In each of these examples it is assumed that the rental agreement is not a disqualified leaseback or long-term agreement subject to constant rental accrual. The examples are as follows: 



---

[N] [T.D. 8820, 64 FR 26859, May 18, 1999, as amended by T.D. 8917, 66 FR 1040, Jan. 5, 2001]




