# ยง 194.103   Definitions.

For the purpose of this part:


*Aviation Safety Inspector* means a pilot employed by the FAA to conduct operations of a powered-lift for the purpose of establishing a type rating in that particular powered-lift under part 21 of this chapter, as appropriate.


*Extended over-water operation* means a powered-lift operation over water at a horizontal distance of more than 50 nautical miles from the nearest shoreline and more than 50 nautical miles from an off-shore heliport structure under part 91 or 135 of this chapter.


*FAA test pilot* means a pilot employed by the FAA to conduct operations of a powered-lift for the purpose of FAA examination or inspection of a type design for which an application for type certification has been submitted under part 21 of this chapter.


*Heliport* means an area of land, water, or structure used or intended to be used for the landing and takeoff of helicopters and powered-lift.


*Instructor pilot* means a pilot employed or used by a manufacturer of a powered-lift to conduct operations of the powered-lift for the purpose of developing a proposed training curriculum and providing crew training.


*Manufacturer* means any person who holds, or is an applicant for, a type or production certificate for an aircraft. An amateur builder under ยง 21.191(g) of this chapter, builder of a kit aircraft under ยง 21.191(h) of this chapter, or the holder of a restricted category type certificate are not considered manufacturers for the purpose of this part.


*Test pilot* means a pilot employed or used by a manufacturer of a powered-lift to conduct operations of the powered-lift for the purpose of research and development and showing compliance with this chapter.


*Vertical-lift flight mode* means a mode of flight where a powered-lift:


(1) Is in a configuration that allows vertical takeoff, vertical landing, and low-speed flight; and


(2) Depends principally on engine-driven lift devices or engine thrust for lift.


*Wing-borne flight mode* means a mode of flight where a powered-lift is not operating in the vertical-lift flight mode as defined and depends exclusively or partially on nonrotating airfoil(s) for lift during takeoff, landing, or horizontal flight.






