# ยง 37.25   Renewal of REAL ID driver's licenses and identification cards.

(a) *In-person renewals.* States must require holders of REAL ID driver's licenses and identification cards to renew their driver's licenses and identification cards with the State DMV in person, no less frequently than every sixteen years.


(1) The State DMV shall take an updated photograph of the applicant, no less frequently than every sixteen years.


(2) The State must reverify the renewal applicant's SSN and lawful status through SSOLV and SAVE, respectively (or other DHS-approved means) as applicable prior to renewing the driver's license or identification card. The State must also verify electronically information that it was not able to verify at a previous issuance or renewal if the systems or processes exist to do so.


(3) Holders of temporary or limited-term REAL ID driver's licenses and identification cards must present evidence of continued lawful status via SAVE or other method approved by DHS when renewing their driver's license or identification card.


(b) *Remote/Non-in-person renewal.* Except as provided in (b)(2) a State may conduct a non-in-person (remote) renewal if State procedures permit the renewal to be conducted remotely.


(1) The State must reverify the applicant's SSN and lawful status pursuant to ยง 37.13 prior to renewing the driver's license or identification card.


(2) The State may not remotely renew a REAL ID driver's license or identification card where there has been a material change in any personally identifiable information since prior issuance. All material changes must be established through the applicant's presentation of an original source document as provided in Subpart B, and must be verified as specified in ยง 37.13.




