# ยง 1660.4   Policy.

(a) It is the policy of the SSS to make official factual information, both testimonial and documentary, reasonably available for use in Federal courts, State courts, foreign courts, and other governmental proceedings unless that information is classified, privileged, or otherwise protected from public disclosure.


(b) SSS personnel, as defined in ยง 1660.3, however, shall not provide such official information, testimony, or documents, submit to interview, or permit a view or visit, without the authorization required by this part.


(c) SSS personnel shall not provide, with or without compensation, opinion or expert testimony concerning official SSS information, subjects, personnel, or activities, except on behalf of the United States or a party represented by the Department of Justice, or with the written special authorization required by this part.


(d) Paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section constitute a regulatory general order, applicable to all SSS personnel individually, and need no further implementation. A violation of the provisions in paragraphs (b) and (c) is the basis for appropriate administrative procedures with respect to civilian employees. Moreover, violations of this paragraph (d) by SSS personnel may, under certain circumstances, be actionable under 18 U.S.C. 207.


(e) Upon a showing by a requester of exceptional need or unique circumstances, and that the anticipated testimony will not be adverse to the interests of the SSS or the United States, the SSS GC may, in their sole discretion, and pursuant to the guidance contained in this part, grant such written special authorization for SSS personnel to appear and testify as expert or opinion witnesses at no expense to the United States.






