# ยง 3550.55   Applications.

(a) *Application submissions.* All persons applying for RHS loans must file a complete written application in a format specified by RHS. Applications will be accepted even when funds are not available. 


(b) *Application processing.* (1) Incomplete applications will be returned to the applicant specifying in writing the additional information that is needed to make the application complete. 


(2) An applicant may voluntarily withdraw an application at any time. 


(3) RHS may periodically request in writing that applicants reconfirm their interest in obtaining a loan. RHS may withdraw the application of any applicant who does not respond within the specified timeframe. 


(4) Applicants who are eligible will be notified in writing. If additional information becomes available that indicates that the original eligibility determination may have been incorrect, or that circumstances have changed, RHS may reconsider the application and the applicant may be required to submit additional information. 


(5) Applicants who are ineligible will be notified in writing and provided with the specific reasons for the rejection. 




(c) *Selection for processing and funding.* Applications will be selected for processing using the priorities specified in this paragraph (c). Within priority categories, applications will be processed in the order that the completed applications are received. In the case of applications with equivalent priority status that are received on the same day, preference will first be extended to applicants qualifying for a veterans' preference. When funds are limited and eligible applicants will be placed on the waiting list, the priorities specified in this paragraph (c) will be used to determine the selection of applications for available funds.




(1) First priority will be given to existing customers who request subsequent loans to correct health and safety hazards. 


(2) Second priority will be given to loans related to the sale of an REO property or the transfer of an exisiting RHS financed property. 


(3) Third priority will be given to applicants facing housing related hardships including applicants who have been living in deficient housing for more than 6 months, current homeowners in danger of losing a property through foreclosure, and other circumstances determined by RHS on a case-by-case basis to constitute a hardship. 


(4) Fourth priority will be given to applicants seeking loans for the construction of dwellings in an RHS-approved Mutual Self-Help project, loan application packages funneled through an Agency-approved intermediary under the certified loan application packaging process, and loans that will leverage funding or financing from other sources at a level published in the program handbook.


(5) Applications from applicants who do not qualify for priority consideration in paragraph (c)(1), (2), (3), or (4) of this section will be selected for processing after all applications with priority status have been processed.






(d) *Applicant timeframe.* RHS will specify a reasonable timeframe within which eligible applicants selected for processing must provide the information needed to underwrite the loan. 



---

[N] [61 FR 59779, Nov. 22, 1996, as amended at 80 FR 23678, Apr. 29, 2015; 87 FR 6771, Feb. 7, 2022]




