# § 57.704   Compliance with fugitive emission evaluation and control requirements.

This section applies only to smelters not required to submit SIP Compliance Schedules under § 57.705. Each NSO shall require that smelters satisfy each of the requirements of subpart E as expeditiously as practicable, taking into account the extent to which those requirements have already been satisfied, and in any event, within any deadlines specified below.


(a) *Plan for fugitive emission control.* The NSO shall provide that within a reasonable period after the submission of the report on the fugitive emission control study required by § 57.502, but within a period allowing sufficient time for compliance with the requirement of § 57.503 for amendment of the NSO, the smelter owner shall submit to the issuing agency for its approval a proposed fugitive emission control plan, including increments of progress, for compliance with the requirements of §§ 57.501 and 57.503.


(b) *SCS Report.* If the fugitive emission control plan submitted under paragraph (a) of this section proposes to meet the requirements of §§ 57.501 and 57.503 through the additional use of a supplementary control system, the plan shall demonstrate that the use of supplementary controls at that smelter to prevent violations of the NAAQS resulting from fugitive emissions is practicable, adequate, reliable, and enforceable. The plan shall contain increments of progress providing for completion of the implementation of each additional measure, and for corresponding compliance with the requirements of paragraphs (b) and (c) of § 57.404, within four months of approval of the plan by the issuing agency. The plan shall also provide that within three months after completion of implementation of those additional measures, the smelter shall fully comply with the requirements of §§ 57.401 and 57.501 (including the assumption of liability for violations of NAAQS within its designated liability area), and shall submit and additional SCS report for the approval of the issuing agency. This additional final report shall correspond to that submitted under § 57.405(b)(2), except that it need not contain the 3-month study described in § 57.405(b)(2)(iii).


(c) *NSO amendment.* The amendments of the NSO required under § 57.503 shall be affected by the issuing agency as follows:


(1) With respect to the additional use of SCS, upon approval or promulgation of the plan submitted under paragraph (a) of this section and upon approval or promulgation of the requirements for the system described in the additional SCS Report under paragraph (b) of this section;


(2) With respect to the additional use of engineering techniques, upon approval or promulgation of the compliance schedule required by paragraph (a) of this section.




