# § 63.7841   What reports must I submit and when?

(a) *Compliance report due dates.* Unless the Administrator has approved a different schedule, you must submit a semiannual compliance report to your permitting authority according to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section.


(1) The first compliance report must cover the period beginning on the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.7783 and ending on June 30 or December 31, whichever date comes first after the compliance date that is specified for your source in § 63.7783.


(2) The first compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date comes first after your first compliance report is due.


(3) Each subsequent compliance report must cover the semiannual reporting period from January 1 through June 30 or the semiannual reporting period from July 1 through December 31.


(4) Each subsequent compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date comes first after the end of the semiannual reporting period.


(5) For each affected source that is subject to permitting regulations pursuant to 40 CFR part 70 or 71, and if the permitting authority has established dates for submitting semiannual reports pursuant to 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), you may submit the first and subsequent compliance reports according to the dates the permitting authority has established instead of according to the dates in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section.


(b) *Compliance report contents.* Each compliance report must include the information in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section and, as applicable, paragraphs (b)(4) through (13) of this section.


(1) Company name and address.


(2) Statement by a responsible official, with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the content of the report.


(3) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.


(4) For existing sources and for new or reconstructed sources for which construction or reconstruction commenced on or before August 16, 2019, before January 11, 2021, if you had a startup, shutdown, or malfunction during the reporting period and you took actions consistent with your startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan, the compliance report must include the information in § 63.10(d)(5)(i). A startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan and the information in § 63.10(d)(5)(i) is not required after January 11, 2021.


(5) If there were no deviations from the continuous compliance requirements in §§ 63.7833 and 63.7834 that apply to you, a statement that there were no deviations from the emission limitations or operation and maintenance requirements during the reporting period.


(6) If there were no periods during which a continuous monitoring system (including a CPMS, COMS, or continuous emission monitoring system (CEMS) was out-of-control as specified in § 63.8(c)(7), a statement that there were no periods during which the CPMS was out-of-control during the reporting period.


(7) For each deviation from an emission limitation in § 63.7790 that occurs at an affected source where you are not using a continuous monitoring system (including a CPMS, COMS, or CEMS) to comply with an emission limitation in this subpart, the compliance report must contain the information in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section, the information in paragraphs (b)(7)(i) and (ii) of this section, and the information in (b)(13) of this section. This includes periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction.


(i) The total operating time of each affected source during the reporting period.


(ii) Information on the duration and cause of deviations (including unknown cause, if applicable) as applicable and the corrective action taken.


(8) For each deviation from an emission limitation occurring at an affected source where you are using a continuous monitoring system (including a CPMS or COMS) to comply with the emission limitation in this subpart, you must include the information in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section, the information in paragraphs (b)(8)(i) through (xi) of this section, and the information in (b)(13) of this section. This includes periods of malfunction.


(i) The date and time that each malfunction started and stopped.


(ii) The date, time, and duration that each continuous monitoring was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks.


(iii) The date, time, and duration that each continuous monitoring system was out-of-control as specified in § 63.8(c)(7), including the information in § 63.8(c)(8).


(iv) The date and time that each deviation started and stopped, and whether each deviation occurred during a malfunction or during another period.


(v) A summary of the total duration of the deviation during the reporting period and the total duration as a percent of the total source operating time during that reporting period.


(vi) A breakdown of the total duration of the deviations during the reporting period including those that are due to control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes.


(vii) A summary of the total duration of continuous monitoring system downtime during the reporting period and the total duration of continuous monitoring system downtime as a percent of the total source operating time during the reporting period.


(viii) A brief description of the process units.


(ix) A brief description of the continuous monitoring system.


(x) The date of the latest continuous monitoring system certification or audit.


(xi) A description of any changes in continuous monitoring systems, processes, or controls since the last reporting period.


(9) Any deviation from the requirements in § 63.7791 and the corrective action taken. For each deviation, you must include the information in (b)(13) of this section.


(10) If there were no deviations from the requirements in § 63.7791, a statement that there were no deviations from the requirements during the reporting period.


(11) If the facility demonstrates compliance with the mercury emission limits in Table 1 through the compliance options in § 63.7791(c), (d), or (e), the report must contain the applicable statement in paragraphs (b)(11)(i) and (ii) of this section, as applicable.


(i) “This facility participates in and purchases scrap only from scrap providers who participate in a program for removal of mercury switches that has been approved by the EPA Administrator, in accordance with § 63.7791(c) or (e)”; or


(ii) “This facility complies with the requirements for scrap that does not contain mercury switches, in accordance with § 63.7791(d).”


(12) For existing sources and for new or reconstructed sources which commenced construction or reconstruction on or before August 16, 2019, before January 11, 2021, for each startup, shutdown, or malfunction during the reporting period that is not consistent with your startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan you must submit an immediate startup, shutdown and malfunction report. Unless the Administrator has approved a different schedule for submission of reports under § 63.10(a), you must submit each report according to paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section. An immediate startup, shutdown, and malfunction report is not required after January 11, 2021.


(13) Beginning on January 11, 2021 if you failed to meet an applicable standard, the compliance report must include the start date, start time, and duration of each failure. For each failure, the compliance report must include a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.


(14) For each unplanned bleeder valve opening for each blast furnace, you must include the information in paragraphs (b)(14)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) The date and time of the event.


(ii) The duration of the event.


(iii) Any corrective actions taken in response to the event.










(c) *Use of CEDRI template.* Beginning on January 11, 2021 or 180 days after the date the reporting template becomes available in CEDRI, whichever is later, submit all subsequent reports following the procedure specified in paragraph (d) of this section.


(d) *CEDRI submission.* If you are required to submit reports following the procedure specified in this paragraph, you must submit reports to the EPA via CEDRI, which can be accessed through EPA's CDX (*https://cdx.epa.gov/*). You must use the appropriate electronic report template on the CEDRI website (*https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/compliance-and-emissions-data-reporting-interface-cedri*) for this subpart. The date report templates become available will be listed on the CEDRI website. The report must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the report is submitted. Do not use CEDRI to submit information you claim as CBI. Although we do not expect persons to assert a claim of CBI, if you wish to assert a CBI claim for some of the information in the report, you must submit a complete file, including information claimed to be CBI, to the EPA following the procedures in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section. Clearly mark the part or all of the information that you claim to be CBI. Information not marked as CBI may be authorized for public release without prior notice. Information marked as CBI will not be disclosed except in accordance with procedures set forth in 40 CFR part 2. All CBI claims must be asserted at the time of submission. Anything submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed CBI. Furthermore, under CAA section 114(c), emissions data is not entitled to confidential treatment, and the EPA is required to make emissions data available to the public. Thus, emissions data will not be protected as CBI and will be made publicly available. You must submit the same file submitted to the CBI office with the CBI omitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph.


(1) The preferred method to receive CBI is for it to be transmitted electronically using email attachments, File Transfer Protocol, or other online file sharing services. Electronic submissions must be transmitted directly to the OAQPS CBI Office at the email address *oaqpscbi@epa.gov,* and as described above, should include clear CBI markings and be flagged to the attention of the Integrated Iron and Steel Sector Lead. If assistance is needed with submitting large electronic files that exceed the file size limit for email attachments, and if you do not have your own file sharing service, please email *oaqpscbi@epa.gov* to request a file transfer link.


(2) If you cannot transmit the file electronically, you may send CBI information through the postal service to the following address: OAQPS Document Control Officer (C404-02), OAQPS, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27711, Attention Integrated Iron and Steel Sector Lead. The mailed CBI material should be double wrapped and clearly marked. Any CBI markings should not show through the outer envelope.






(e) *CDX outage.* If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in EPA's CDX, you may assert a claim of EPA system outage for failure to timely comply with the reporting requirement. To assert a claim of EPA system outage, you must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (e)(1) through (7) of this section.


(1) You must have been or will be precluded from accessing CEDRI and submitting a required report within the time prescribed due to an outage of either EPA's CEDRI or CDX systems.


(2) The outage must have occurred within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date that the submission is due.


(3) The outage may be planned or unplanned.


(4) You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.


(5) You must provide to the Administrator a written description identifying:


(i) The date(s) and time(s) when CDX or CEDRI was accessed and the system was unavailable;


(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to EPA system outage;


(iii) Measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and


(iv) The date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported.


(6) The decision to accept the claim of EPA system outage and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.


(7) In any circumstance, the report must be submitted electronically as soon as possible after the outage is resolved.


(f) *Claim of force majeure.* If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in EPA's CDX, you may assert a claim of force majeure for failure to timely comply with the reporting requirement. To assert a claim of force majeure, you must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (f)(1) through (5) of this section.


(1) You may submit a claim if a force majeure event is about to occur, occurs, or has occurred or there are lingering effects from such an event within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date the submission is due. For the purposes of this section, a force majeure event is defined as an event that will be or has been caused by circumstances beyond the control of the affected facility, its contractors, or any entity controlled by the affected facility that prevents you from complying with the requirement to submit a report electronically within the time period prescribed. Examples of such events are acts of nature (*e.g.,* hurricanes, earthquakes, or floods), acts of war or terrorism, or equipment failure or safety hazard beyond the control of the affected facility (*e.g.,* large scale power outage).


(2) You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.


(3) You must provide to the Administrator:


(i) A written description of the force majeure event;


(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the force majeure event;


(iii) Measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and


(iv) The date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported.


(4) The decision to accept the claim of force majeure and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.


(5) In any circumstance, the reporting must occur as soon as possible after the force majeure event occurs.


(g) *Part 70 monitoring report.* If you have obtained a title V operating permit for an affected source pursuant to part 70 or 71 of this chapter, you must report all deviations as defined in this subpart in the semiannual monitoring report required by § 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or § 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) of this chapter. If you submit a compliance report for an affected source along with, or as part of, the semiannual monitoring report required by § 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or § 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) of this chapter, and the compliance report includes all the required information concerning deviations from any emission limitation, standard, or operation and maintenance requirement in this subpart, submission of the compliance report satisfies any obligation to report the same deviations in the semiannual monitoring report. However, submission of a compliance report does not otherwise affect any obligation you may have to report deviations from permit requirements for an affected source to your permitting authority.


(h) *Fenceline monitoring reports.* For fenceline monitoring systems subject to § 63.7792, each owner or operator must submit Fenceline Monitoring Reports on a quarterly basis using the appropriate electronic report template on the CEDRI website (*https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/cedri*) for this subpart and following the procedure specified in paragraph (d) of this section. The first quarterly report must be submitted once the owner or operator has obtained 12 months of data. The first quarterly report must cover the period beginning on the date one year after the promulgation of the metals fenceline method and ending on March 31, June 30, September 30 or December 31, whichever date is the first date that occurs after the owner or operator has obtained 12 months of data (*i.e.,* the first quarterly report will contain between 12 and 15 months of data). Each subsequent quarterly report must cover one of the following reporting periods: Quarter 1 from January 1 through March 31; Quarter 2 from April 1 through June 30; Quarter 3 from July 1 through September 30; and Quarter 4 from October 1 through December 31. Each quarterly report must be electronically submitted no later than 45 calendar days following the end of the reporting period.


(1) Facility name and address.


(2) Year and reporting quarter (*i.e.,* Quarter 1, Quarter 2, Quarter 3, or Quarter 4).


(3) For each sampler: The latitude and longitude location coordinates; the sampler name; and identification of the type of sampler (*e.g.,* regular monitor, extra monitor, duplicate, field blank, inactive). Coordinates shall be in decimal degrees with at least five decimal places.


(4) The beginning and ending dates for each sampling period.


(5) Individual sample results for each monitored compound, reported in units of µg/m
3, for each monitor for each sampling period that ends during the reporting period. Results below the method detection limit shall be flagged as below the detection limit and reported at the method detection limit.


(6) Data flags for each outlier determined in accordance with the fenceline metals method. For each outlier, the owner or operator must submit the individual sample result of the outlier, as well as the evidence used to conclude that the result is an outlier.


(7) The biweekly concentration difference (Δc) for each sampling period and the annual average Δc for each sampling period.


(8) Indication of whether the owner or operator was required to develop a corrective action plan under § 63.7792(e).











---

[N] [68 FR 27663, May 20, 2003, as amended at 85 FR 42122, July 13, 2020; 89 FR 23328, Apr. 3, 2024]










