# ยง 800.135   Who may request appeal inspection services.

(a) *General.* Any interested person may request appeal inspection or Board appeal inspection services, except as provided for in ยง 800.86(c)(5). When more than one interested person requests an appeal inspection or Board appeal inspection service, the first person to file is the applicant of record. Only one appeal inspection may be obtained from any original inspection or reinspection service. Only one Board appeal inspection may be obtained from an appeal inspection. Board appeal inspections will be performed on the basis of the official file sample. Board appeal inspections are not available on stowage examination services.


(b) *Kind and scope of request.* An appeal inspection service is limited to the kind and scope of the original or reinspection service; or, in the case of a Board Appeal inspection service, the kind and scope of the appeal inspection service. If the request specifies a different kind or scope, the request shall be dismissed but may be resubmitted as a request for original services: Provided, however, that an applicant for service may request an appeal or Board Appeal inspection of a specific factor(s), official grade and factors, or official criteria. In addition, appeal and Board Appeal inspections for grade may include a review of any pertinent factor(s), as deemed necessary by official personnel. Official criteria are considered separately from official grade or official factors when determining kind and scope. When requested, an appeal inspection for grade, or official factors, and official criteria may be handled separately even though both results are reported on the same certificate. Moreover, an appeal inspection may be requested on the inspection results when both inspection and Class X weighing results are reported on a combination inspection and Class X weight certificate. 



---

[N] [50 FR 45395, Oct. 31, 1985, as amended at 55 FR 24048, June 13, 1990; 68 FR 61328, Oct. 28, 2003]




