# § 680.114   Charging network connectivity of electric vehicle charging infrastructure.

(a) *Charger-to-charger-network communication.* (1) Chargers must communicate with a charging network via a secure communication method. See § 680.108 for more information about OCPP requirements.


(2) Chargers must have the ability to receive and implement secure, remote software updates and conduct real-time protocol translation, encryption and decryption, authentication, and authorization in their communication with charging networks.


(3) Charging networks must perform and chargers must support remote charger monitoring, diagnostics, control, and smart charge management.


(4) Chargers and charging networks must securely measure, communicate, store, and report energy and power dispensed, real-time charging-port status, real-time price to the customer, and historical charging-port uptime.


(b) *Interoperability.* See § 680.108 for interoperability requirements.


(c) *Charging-network-to-charging-network communication.* A charging network must be capable of communicating with other charging networks to enable an EV driver to use a single method of identification to charge at Charging Stations that are a part of multiple charging networks. See § 680.108 for more information about OCPI requirements.


(d) *Charging-network-to-grid communication.* Charging networks must be capable of secure communication with electric utilities, other energy providers, or local energy management systems.


(e) *Disrupted network connectivity.* Chargers must remain functional if communication with the charging network is temporarily disrupted, such that they initiate and complete charging sessions, providing the minimum required power level defined in § 680.106(d).






