# ยง 102.164   Review of the obligation.

(a) The debtor shall have the opportunity to obtain review by the Agency of the determination concerning the existence or amount of the debt as set forth in the notice. In cases where the amount of the debt has been fully liquidated, the review is limited to ensuring that the liquidated amount is correctly represented in the notice.


(b) The debtor seeking review shall make the request in writing to the Agency, not more than 15 days from the date the demand letter was received by the debtor. The request for review shall state the basis for challenging the determination. If the debtor alleges that the Agency's information relating to the debt is not accurate, timely, relevant or complete, the debtor shall provide information or documentation to support this allegation.


(c) The Agency may effect an administrative offset against a payment to be made to a debtor prior to the completion of the due process procedures required by this subpart, if failure to take the offset would substantially prejudice the Agency's ability to collect the debt; for example, if the time before the payment is to be made would not reasonably permit the completion of due process procedures. Administrative offset effected prior to completion of due process procedures must be promptly followed by the completion of those procedures. Amounts recovered by administrative offset, but later found not owed to the Agency, will be promptly refunded.


(d) Upon completion of the review, the Agency's reviewing official shall transmit to the debtor the Agency's decision. If appropriate, this decision shall inform the debtor of the scheduled date on or after which administrative offset will begin. The decision shall also, if appropriate, indicate any changes in information to the extent such information differs from that provided in the initial notification to the debtor under ยง 102.161.


(e) Nothing in this subpart will preclude the Agency from *sua sponte* reviewing the obligation of the debtor, including reconsideration of the Agency's determination concerning the debt, and the accuracy, timeliness, relevance, and completeness of the information on which the debt is based.



---

[N] [62 FR 55164, Oct. 23, 1997, as amended at 82 FR 11785, Feb. 24, 2017]




