# § 1202.8   If the requested records contain confidential commercial information, what procedures will FHFA follow?

(a) *General.* FHFA will not disclose confidential commercial information in response to your FOIA request except as described in this section.


(b) *Designation of confidential commercial information.* Submitters of commercial information must use good-faith efforts to designate, by appropriate markings or written request, either at the time of submission or at a reasonable time thereafter, those portions of the information they deem to be protected under 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4) and § 1202.4(a)(4) of this part. Any such designation will expire 10 years after the records are submitted to the Federal Government, unless the submitter requests, and provides reasonable justification for a designation period of longer duration.


(c) *Pre-Disclosure Notification.* Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, if your FOIA request encompasses confidential commercial information, FHFA will, prior to disclosure of the information and to the extent permitted by law, provide prompt written notice to a submitter that confidential commercial information was requested when—


(1) The submitter has in good faith designated the information as confidential commercial information protected from disclosure under 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4) and § 1202.4(a)(4) of this part; or


(2) FHFA has reason to believe that the request seeks confidential commercial information, the disclosure of which may result in substantial competitive harm to the submitter.


(d) *Content of Pre-Disclosure Notification.* When FHFA sends a Pre-Disclosure Notification to a submitter, it will contain—


(1) A description of the commercial information requested or copies of the records or portions thereof containing the business information; and


(2) An opportunity to object to disclosure within 10 days or such other time period that FHFA may allow by providing to FHFA a detailed written statement demonstrating all reasons the submitter opposes disclosure.


(e) *Exceptions to Pre-Disclosure Notification.* FHFA is not required to send a Pre-Disclosure Notification if—


(1) FHFA determines that information should not be disclosed;


(2) The information has been published lawfully or has been made officially available to the public;


(3) Disclosure of the information is required by law, other than the FOIA;


(4) The information requested is not designated by the submitter as confidential commercial information pursuant to this section, unless the agency has substantial reason to believe that disclosure of the information would result in competitive harm; or


(5) The submitter's designation, under paragraph (b) of this section, appears on its face to be frivolous; except that FHFA will provide the submitter with written notice of any final decision to disclose the designated confidential commercial information within a reasonable number of days prior to a specified disclosure date.


(f) *Submitter's objection to disclosure.* A submitter may object to disclosure within 10 days after the date of the Pre-Disclosure Notification, or such other time period that FHFA may allow, by delivering to FHFA a written statement demonstrating all grounds on which it opposes disclosure, and all reasons supporting its contention that the information should not be disclosed. The submitter's objection must contain a certification by the submitter, or an officer or authorized representative of the submitter, that the grounds and reasons presented are true and correct to the best of the submitter's knowledge. The submitter's objection may itself be subject to disclosure under the FOIA.


(g) *Notice of Intent to disclose information.* FHFA will carefully consider all grounds and reasons provided by a submitter objecting to disclosure. If FHFA decides to disclose the information over the submitter's objection, the submitter will be provided with a written Notice of Intent to disclose at least 10 days before the date of disclosure. The written Notice of Intent will contain—


(1) A statement of the reasons why the information will be disclosed;


(2) A description of the information to be disclosed; and


(3) A specific disclosure date.


(h) *Notice to requester.* FHFA will give a requester whose request encompasses confidential commercial information—


(1) A written notice that the request encompasses confidential commercial information that may be exempt from disclosure under 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4) and § 1202.4(a)(4) of this part and that the submitter of the information has been given a Pre-Disclosure Notification with the opportunity to comment on the proposed disclosure of the information; and


(2) A written notice that a Notice of Intent to disclose has been provided to the submitter, and that the submitter has 10 days, or such other time period that FHFA may allow, to respond.


(i) *Notice of FOIA lawsuit.* FHFA will promptly notify the submitter whenever a requester files suit seeking to compel disclosure of the submitter's confidential commercial information. FHFA will promptly notify the requester whenever a submitter files suit seeking to prevent disclosure of information.



---

[N] [82 FR 13745, Mar. 15, 2017, as amended at 83 FR 5684, Feb. 9, 2018]




