# ยง 22.960   Cellular operations in the Chambers, TX CMA (CMA672-A).

This section applies only to Cellular systems operating on channel block A of the Chambers, Texas CMA (CMA672-A).


(a) The geographic boundary of CMA672-A is deemed to be the Cellular Geographic Service Area (CGSA) boundary. This CGSA boundary is not determined using the methodology of ยง 22.911. The licensee of CMA672-A may not propose an expansion of this CGSA into another CMA unless and until it meets the construction requirement set forth in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.


(b) A licensee that holds the license for CMA672-A must be providing signal coverage and offering service as follows (and in applying these geographic construction benchmarks, the licensee is to count total land area):


(1) To at least 35% of the geographic area of CMA672-A within four years of the grant of such authorization; and


(2) To at least 70% of the geographic area of its license authorization by the end of the license term.


(c) After it has met each of the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2), respectively, of this section, the licensee that holds the license for CMA672-A must notify the FCC that it has met the requirement by submitting FCC Form 601, including GIS map files and other supporting documents showing compliance with the requirement. *See* ยง 1.946 of this chapter. *See also* ยง 22.953.


(d) Failure to meet the construction requirements set forth in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section by each of the applicable deadlines will result in automatic termination of the license for CMA672-A and its return to the Commission for future re-licensing subject to competitive bidding procedures. The licensee that fails to meet each requirement of this section by the applicable deadline set forth in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) shall be ineligible to regain the license for CMA672-A.



---

[N] [79 FR 72153, Dec. 5, 2014]




