# § 884.102   Definitions.

The terms *Fair Market Rent (FMR), HUD, Public housing agency (PHA),* and *Secretary* are defined in 24 CFR part 5.


*Agreement to enter into housing assistance payments contract* (*“agreement”*). (a) In the case of a Private-Owner Project or a PHA-Owner Project, a written agreement between the Owner and HUD that, upon satisfactory completion of the housing in accordance with the HUD-approved Proposal and submission by RHCDS of the required certifications, HUD will enter into a Housing Assistance Payments Contract with the Owner. 


(b) In the case of a Private-Owner/PHA Project, a written agreement between the private owner and the PHA, approved by HUD, that, upon satisfactory completion of the housing in accordance with the HUD-approved Proposal and submission by RHCDS of the required certifications, the PHA will enter into a Housing Assistance Payments Contract with the Private Owner. 


*Annual contributions contract* (*“ACC”*). In the case of a Private-Owner/PHA Project, a written agreement between HUD and the PHA to provide annual contributions to the PHA with respect to the project. 


*Annual income.* As defined in part 5 of this title. 


*Contract.* See definition of Housing Assistance Payments Contract. 


*Contract rent.* The rent payable to the Owner under his Contract including the portion of the rent payable by the Family. In the case of a cooperative, the term “Contract Rent” means charges under the occupancy agreements between the members and the cooperative. 


*Covered housing provider.* For the Section 8 Housing Assistance Payments Programs, New Construction Set-Aside for Section 515 Rural Rental Housing, “covered housing provider,” as such term is used in HUD's regulations at 24 CFR part 5, subpart L (Protection for Victims of Domestic Violence, Dating Violence, Sexual Assault, or Stalking), refers to the owner.


*Decent, safe, and sanitary.* Housing is decent, safe, and sanitary if it meets the physical condition requirements in 24 CFR part 5, subpart G.


*Drug-related criminal activity.* The illegal manufacture, sale, distribution, use or possession with the intent to manufacture, sell, distribute, or use, of a controlled substance as defined in section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act, 21 U.S.C. 802. 


*Family.* As defined in part 5 of this title. 


*HCD Act.* The Housing and Community Development Act of 1974. 


*Housing Assistance Payment.* The payment made by the contract administrator to the Owner of an assisted unit as provided in the Contract. Where the unit is leased to an eligible Family, the payment is the difference between the Contract Rent and Tenant Rent. An additional Housing Assistance Payment is made to the Family when the Utility Allowance is greater than the Total Tenant Payment. A Housing Assistance Payment may be made to the Owner when a unit becomes vacant, in accordance with the terms of the Contract. 


*Housing assistance payments contract (“Contract”).* (a) In the case of a Private-Owner Project or a PHA-Owner Project, a written contract between the Owner and HUD for the purpose of providing housing assistance payments to the Owner on behalf of Eligible Families. 


(b) In the case of a Private-Owner/PHA Project, a written contract between the private Owner, and the PHA, approved by HUD, for the purpose of providing housing assistance payments to the Owner on behalf of Eligible Families. 


*Income.* Income from all sources of each member of the household as determined in accordance with criteria established by HUD and as defined in 24 CFR part 5, subpart F.


*Lease.* A written agreement between an Owner and an Eligible Family for the leasing of a Decent, Safe, and Sanitary dwelling unit in accordance with the applicable Contract, which agreement is in compliance with the provisions of this part. 


*Local housing assistance plan.* A housing assistance plan submitted by a unit of general local government and approved by HUD under Section 104 of the HCD Act or, in the case of a unit of general local government not participating under Title I of the HCD Act, a housing plan which contains the elements set forth in Section 104(a)(4) of the HCD Act and which is approved by the Secretary as meeting the requirements of Section 213 of that Act. 


*Low-income family.* As defined in part 5 of this title. 


*Owner.* Any private person or entity, including a cooperative or a PHA, having the legal right to lease or sublease newly constructed dwelling units. 


*PHA-owner proposal and PHA-owner project.* A proposal for a project under this part (and the resulting project) to be owned by a PHA throughout the term of the Agreement and Contract where such Agreement and Contract are to be entered into between the PHA and HUD. 


*Private-owner/PHA proposal and private-owner/PHA project.* A proposal for a project under this part (and the resulting project) to be owned by a private Owner throughout the term of the Agreement and Contract where such Agreement and Contract are to be entered into between the private Owner and the PHA pursuant to an ACC between the PHA and HUD. The term also covers the situation where the ACC is with one PHA and the Owner is another PHA. 


*Private-owner proposal and private-owner project.* A proposal for a project under this part (and the resulting project) to be owned by a private Owner throughout the term of the Agreement and Contract where such Agreement and Contract are to be entered into between the private Owner and HUD. 


*Project account.* The account established and maintained in accordance with § 884.104 or § 884.105. 


*Proposal.* A proposal for a Private-Owner or PHA-Owner/PHA Project to provide newly constructed housing submitted to HUD by RHCDS on the prescribed RHCDS form. 


*RHCDS.* The Rural Housing and Community Development Service.


*Tenant rent.* As defined in part 5 of this title. 


*Total tenant payment.* As defined in part 5 of this title. 


*Utility allowance.* As defined in part 5 of this title. 


*Utility reimbursement.* As defined in part 5 of this title. 


*Very low-income family.* As defined in part 5 of this title. 



---

[N] [41 FR 47168, Oct. 27, 1976, as amended at 42 FR 63745, Dec. 19, 1977. Redesignated at 45 FR 6909, Jan. 30, 1980, and amended at 48 FR 12710, Mar. 28, 1983; 49 FR 17449, Apr. 24, 1984; 49 FR 19947, May 10, 1984; 50 FR 38795, Sept. 25, 1985; 61 FR 5213, Feb. 9, 1996; 61 FR 13593, Mar. 27, 1996; 61 FR 47382, Sept. 6, 1996; 63 FR 46579, Sept. 1, 1998; 65 FR 16723, Mar. 29, 2000; 70 FR 77744, Dec. 30, 2005; 81 FR 80813, Nov. 16, 2016]




