# § 63.6150   What reports must I submit and when?

(a) *Compliance report.* Anyone who owns or operates a stationary combustion turbine which must meet the emission limitation for formaldehyde must submit a semiannual compliance report according to Table 6 of this subpart. The semiannual compliance report must contain the information described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section. The semiannual compliance report, including the excess emissions and monitoring system performance reports of § 63.10(e)(3), must be submitted by the dates specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section, unless the Administrator has approved a different schedule. After September 8, 2020, or once the reporting template has been available on the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI) website for 180 days, whichever date is later, you must submit all subsequent reports to the EPA following the procedure specified in paragraph (g) of this section.


(1) Company name and address. 


(2) Statement by a responsible official, with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the accuracy of the content of the report. 


(3) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period. 


(4) Before September 8, 2020, for each deviation from an emission limitation, the compliance report must contain the information in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section.


(i) The total operating time of each stationary combustion turbine during the reporting period. 


(ii) Information on the number, duration, and cause of deviations (including unknown cause, if applicable), as applicable, and the corrective action taken. 


(iii) Information on the number, duration, and cause for monitor downtime incidents (including unknown cause, if applicable, other than downtime associated with zero and span and other daily calibration checks). 


(5) After September 8, 2020, report each deviation in the semiannual compliance report. Report the information specified in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) Report the number of deviations. For each instance, report the start date, start time, duration, and cause of each deviation, and the corrective action taken.


(ii) For each deviation, the report must include a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit, a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.


(iii) Information on the number, duration, and cause for monitor downtime incidents (including unknown cause, if applicable, other than downtime associated with zero and span and other daily calibration checks), as applicable, and the corrective action taken.


(iv) Report the total operating time of the affected source during the reporting period.


(b) Dates of submittal for the semiannual compliance report are provided in (b)(1) through (b)(5) of this section. 


(1) The first semiannual compliance report must cover the period beginning on the compliance date specified in § 63.6095 and ending on June 30 or December 31, whichever date is the first date following the end of the first calendar half after the compliance date specified in § 63.6095. 


(2) The first semiannual compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date follows the end of the first calendar half after the compliance date that is specified in § 63.6095. 


(3) Each subsequent semiannual compliance report must cover the semiannual reporting period from January 1 through June 30 or the semiannual reporting period from July 1 through December 31. 


(4) Each subsequent semiannual compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date is the first date following the end of the semiannual reporting period. 


(5) For each stationary combustion turbine that is subject to permitting regulations pursuant to 40 CFR part 70 or 71, and if the permitting authority has established the date for submitting annual reports pursuant to 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), you may submit the first and subsequent compliance reports according to the dates the permitting authority has established instead of according to the dates in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section. 


(c) If you are operating as a stationary combustion turbine which fires landfill gas or digester gas equivalent to 10 percent or more of the gross heat input on an annual basis, or a stationary combustion turbine where gasified MSW is used to generate 10 percent or more of the gross heat input on an annual basis, you must submit an annual report according to Table 6 of this subpart by the date specified unless the Administrator has approved a different schedule, according to the information described in paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section. You must report the data specified in (c)(1) through (3) of this section. After September 8, 2020, you must submit all subsequent reports to the EPA following the procedure specified in paragraph (g) of this section.


(1) Fuel flow rate of each fuel and the heating values that were used in your calculations. You must also demonstrate that the percentage of heat input provided by landfill gas, digester gas, or gasified MSW is equivalent to 10 percent or more of the total fuel consumption on an annual basis. 


(2) The operating limits provided in your federally enforceable permit, and any deviations from these limits. 


(3) Any problems or errors suspected with the meters. 


(d) Dates of submittal for the annual report are provided in (d)(1) through (d)(5) of this section. 


(1) The first annual report must cover the period beginning on the compliance date specified in § 63.6095 and ending on December 31. 


(2) The first annual report must be postmarked or delivered no later than January 31. 


(3) Each subsequent annual report must cover the annual reporting period from January 1 through December 31. 


(4) Each subsequent annual report must be postmarked or delivered no later than January 31. 


(5) For each stationary combustion turbine that is subject to permitting regulations pursuant to 40 CFR part 70 or 71, and if the permitting authority has established the date for submitting annual reports pursuant to 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), you may submit the first and subsequent compliance reports according to the dates the permitting authority has established instead of according to the dates in paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section. 


(e) If you are operating a lean premix gas-fired stationary combustion turbine or a diffusion flame gas-fired stationary combustion turbine as defined by this subpart, and you use any quantity of distillate oil to fire any new or existing stationary combustion turbine which is located at the same major source, you must submit an annual report according to Table 6 of this subpart by the date specified unless the Administrator has approved a different schedule, according to the information described in paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section. You must report the data specified in (e)(1) through (3) of this section. After September 8, 2020, you must submit all subsequent reports to the EPA following the procedure specified in paragraph (g) of this section.


(1) The number of hours distillate oil was fired by each new or existing stationary combustion turbine during the reporting period. 


(2) The operating limits provided in your federally enforceable permit, and any deviations from these limits. 


(3) Any problems or errors suspected with the meters. 


(f) *Performance test report.* After September 8, 2020, within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test required by this subpart, you must submit the results of the performance test (as specified in § 63.6145(f)) following the procedures specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) *Data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT website (https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert) at the time of the test.* Submit the results of the performance test to the EPA via the CEDRI, which can be accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (*https://cdx.epa.gov/*). The data must be submitted in a file format generated through the use of the EPA's ERT. Alternatively, you may submit an electronic file consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's ERT website.


(2) *Data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the test.* The results of the performance test must be included as an attachment in the ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. Submit the ERT generated package or alternative file to the EPA via CEDRI.


(3) *Confidential business information (CBI).* If you claim some of the information submitted under paragraph (f)(1) of this section is CBI, you must submit a complete file, including information claimed to be CBI, to the EPA. The file must be generated through the use of the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. Submit the file on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage medium and clearly mark the medium as CBI. Mail the electronic medium to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described in paragraph (f)(1) of this section.


(g) If you are required to submit reports following the procedure specified in this paragraph, you must submit reports to the EPA via CEDRI, which can be accessed through the EPA's CDX (*https://cdx.epa.gov/*). You must use the appropriate electronic report template on the CEDRI website (*https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/compliance-and-emissions-data-reporting-interface-cedri*) for this subpart. The date report templates become available will be listed on the CEDRI website. The report must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the report is submitted. If you claim some of the information required to be submitted via CEDRI is CBI, submit a complete report, including information claimed to be CBI, to the EPA. The report must be generated using the appropriate form on the CEDRI website. Submit the file on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage medium and clearly mark the medium as CBI. Mail the electronic medium to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph.


(h) If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, you may assert a claim of EPA system outage for failure to timely comply with the reporting requirement. To assert a claim of EPA system outage, you must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (h)(1) through (7) of this section.


(1) You must have been or will be precluded from accessing CEDRI and submitting a required report within the time prescribed due to an outage of either the EPA's CEDRI or CDX systems.


(2) The outage must have occurred within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date that the submission is due.


(3) The outage may be planned or unplanned.


(4) You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.


(5) You must provide to the Administrator a written description identifying:


(i) The date(s) and time(s) when CDX or CEDRI was accessed and the system was unavailable;


(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to EPA system outage;


(iii) Measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and


(iv) The date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported.


(6) The decision to accept the claim of EPA system outage and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.


(7) In any circumstance, the report must be submitted electronically as soon as possible after the outage is resolved.


(i) If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, you may assert a claim of force majeure for failure to timely comply with the reporting requirement. To assert a claim of force majeure, you must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (i)(1) through (5) of this section.


(1) You may submit a claim if a force majeure event is about to occur, occurs, or has occurred or there are lingering effects from such an event within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date the submission is due. For the purposes of this section, a force majeure event is defined as an event that will be or has been caused by circumstances beyond the control of the affected facility, its contractors, or any entity controlled by the affected facility that prevents you from complying with the requirement to submit a report electronically within the time period prescribed. Examples of such events are acts of nature (*e.g.,* hurricanes, earthquakes, or floods), acts of war or terrorism, or equipment failure or safety hazard beyond the control of the affected facility (*e.g.,* large scale power outage).


(2) You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.


(3) You must provide to the Administrator:


(i) A written description of the force majeure event;


(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the force majeure event;


(iii) Measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and


(iv) The date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported.


(4) The decision to accept the claim of force majeure and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.


(5) In any circumstance, the reporting must occur as soon as possible after the force majeure event occurs.



---

[N] [69 FR 10537, Mar. 5, 2004, as amended at 85 FR 13539, Mar. 9, 2020]




