# § 381.116   Wording on labels of immediate containers.

(a) Each label for use on immediate containers for inspected and passed poultry products shall bear on the principal display panel (except as otherwise permitted in the regulations), the items of information required by this subpart. Such items of information shall be in distinctly legible form. Except as provided in § 381.128, all words, statements and other information required by or under authority of the Act to appear on the label or labeling shall appear thereon in the English language: *Provided, however,* That in the case of products distributed solely in Puerto Rico, Spanish may be substituted for English for all printed matter except the USDA inspection legend. 


(b) The principal display panel shall be the part of a label that is most likely to be displayed, presented, shown, or examined under customary conditions of display for sale. The principal display panel shall be large enough to accommodate all the mandatory label information required to be placed thereon by the regulations with clarity and conspicuousness and without being obscured by design or vignettes, or crowding. Where packages bear alternate principal display panels, information required to be placed on the principal display panel shall be duplicated on each principal display panel. The area that is to bear the principal display panel shall be: 


(1) In the case of a rectangular package, one entire side, the area of which is the product of the height times the width of that side. 


(2) In the case of a cylindrical or nearly cylindrical container: 


(i) An area on the side of the container that is 40 percent of the product of the height of the container times the circumference, or 


(ii) A panel, the width of which is one-third of the circumference and the height of which is as high as the container: *Provided, however,* That there is, immediately to the right or left of such principal display panel, a panel which has a width not greater than 20 percent of the circumference and a height as high as the container, and which is reserved for information prescribed in §§ 381.118, 381.122, and 381.123. Such panel shall be known as the “20 percent panel” and such information may be shown on that panel in lieu of showing it on the principal display panel as provided in this § 381.116. 


(3) In the case of a container of any other shape, 40 percent of the total surface of the container. 


(c) (1) The information panel is that part of a label that is the first surface to the right of the principal display panel as observed by an individual facing the principal display panel, with the following exceptions: 


(i) If the first surface to the right of the principal display panel is too small to accommodate the required information or is otherwise unusable label space, e.g., folded flaps, tear strips, opening flaps, heat-sealed flaps, the next panel to the right of this part of the label may be used. 


(ii) If the package has one or more alternate principal display panels, the information panel is to the right of any principal display panel. 


(iii) If the top of the container is the principal display panel and the package has no alternate principal display panel, the information panel is any panel adjacent to the principal display panel. 


(2) (i) Except as otherwise permitted in this part, all information required to appear on the principal display panel or permitted to appear on the information panel shall appear on the same panel unless there is insufficient space. In determining the sufficiency of the available space, except as otherwise prescribed in this part, any vignettes, designs, and any other nonmandatory information shall not be considered. If there is insufficient space for all required information to appear on a single panel, it may be divided between the principal display panel and the information panel, provided that the information required by any given provision of this part, such as the ingredients statement, is not divided and appears on the same panel. 


(ii) All information appearing on the information panel pursuant to this section shall appear in one place without intervening material, such as designs or vignettes. 



---

[N] [37 FR 9706, May 16, 1972, as amended at 40 FR 11347, Mar. 11, 1975; 59 FR 40214, Aug. 8, 1994]




