# § 635.3   Special requirements of the Privacy Act of 1974.

(a) Certain PII is protected in accordance with the provisions of the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a, as implemented by 32 CFR part 310, DoD Privacy Program, 32 CFR part 505, The Army Privacy Program, and OMB guidance defining PII.


(b) Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(3), when an Army activity asks an individual for his or her PII that will be maintained in a system of records, the activity must provide the individual with a Privacy Act Statement (PAS). A PAS notifies individuals of the authority, purpose, and use of the collection, whether the information is mandatory or voluntary, and the effects of not providing all or any part of the requested information.


(c) Army law enforcement personnel performing official duties often require an individual's PII, including SSN, for identification purposes. This PII can be used to complete law enforcement reports and records. In addition to Executive Order 9397, as amended by Executive Order 13478, the solicitation of the SSN is authorized by paragraph 2.c.(2) of DoD Instruction 1000.30, “Reduction of Social Security Number (SSN) Use Within DoD” (available at *http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/100030p.pdf*). The purpose is to provide commanders and law enforcement officials with means by which information may accurately be identified. The SSN is used as an additional/alternate means of identification to facilitate filing and retrieval. The following procedures will be used for identification:


(1) Retired military personnel are required to produce their Common Access Card or DD Form 2 (Ret) (U.S. Armed Forces of the United States General Convention Identification Card), or other government issued identification, as appropriate.


(2) Family members of sponsors will be requested to produce their DD Form 1173 (Uniformed Services Identification and Privilege Card). Information contained thereon (for example, the sponsor's SSN) will be used to verify and complete applicable sections of law enforcement reports and related forms.


(3) Non-Department of Defense (DoD) civilians, including military family members and those whose status is unknown, will be advised of the provisions of the Privacy Act Statement when requested to disclose their PII, including SSN, as required.


(d) Notwithstanding the requirement to furnish an individual with a PAS when his or her PII will be maintained in a system of records, AR 340-21, The Army Privacy Program, *http://www.apd.army.mil/pdffiles/r340_21.pdf,* provides that records contained in SORN A0190-45, Military Police Reporting Program Records (MRRP), *http://dpcld.defense.gov/Privacy/SORNsIndex/tabid/5915/Article/6066/a0190-45-opmg.aspx,* that fall within 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) are exempt from the requirement in 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(3) to provide a PAS.



---

[N] [80 FR 28549, May 19, 2015, as amended at 81 FR 17386, Mar. 29, 2016]




