# ยง 410.34   Mammography services: Conditions for and limitations on coverage.

(a) *Definitions.* As used in this section, the following definitions apply: 


(1) *Diagnostic mammography* means a radiologic procedure furnished to a man or woman with signs or symptoms of breast disease, or a personal history of breast cancer, or a personal history of biopsy-proven benign breast disease, and includes a physician's interpretation of the results of the procedure. 


(2) *Screening mammography* means a radiologic procedure furnished to a woman without signs or symptoms of breast disease, for the purpose of early detection of breast cancer, and includes a physician's interpretation of the results of the procedure. 


(3) *Supplier of diagnostic mammography* means a facility that is certified and responsible for ensuring that all diagnostic mammography services furnished to Medicare beneficiaries meet the conditions for coverage of diagnostic mammography services as specified in paragraph (b) of this section. 


(4) *Supplier of screening mammography* means a facility that is certified and responsible for ensuring that all screening mammography services furnished to Medicare beneficiaries meet the conditions and limitations for coverage of screening mammography services as specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section. 


(5) *Certificate* means the certificate described in 21 CFR 900.2(b) that may be issued to, or renewed for, a facility that meets the requirements for conducting an examination or procedure involving mammography. 


(6) *Provisional certificate* means the provisional certificate described in 21 CFR 900.2(m) that may be issued to a facility to enable the facility to qualify to meet the requirements for conducting an examination or procedure involving mammography. 


(7) The term *meets the certification requirements of section 354 of the Public Health Service (PHS) Act* means that in order to qualify for coverage of its services under the Medicare program, a supplier of diagnostic or screening mammography services must meet the following requirements: 


(i) Must have a valid provisional certificate, or a valid certificate, that has been issued by FDA indicating that the supplier meets the certification requirements of section 354 of the PHS Act, as implemented by 21 CFR part 900, subpart B. 


(ii) Has not been issued a written notification by FDA that states that the supplier must cease conducting mammography examinations because the supplier is not in compliance with certain critical certification requirements of section 354 of the PHS Act, implemented by 21 CFR part 900, subpart B.


(iii) Must not employ for provision of the professional component of mammography services a physician or physicians for whom the facility has received written notification by FDA that the physician (or physicians) is (or are) in violation of the certification requirements set forth in section 354 of the PHS Act, as implemented by 21 CFR 900.12(a)(1)(i). 


(b) *Conditions for coverage of diagnostic mammography services.* Medicare Part B pays for diagnostic mammography services if they meet the following conditions: 


(1) They are ordered by a doctor of medicine or osteopathy (as defined in section 1861(r)(1) of the Act). 


(2) They are furnished by a supplier of diagnostic mammography services that meets the certification requirements of section 354 of the PHS Act, as implemented by 21 CFR part 900, subpart B. 


(c) *Conditions for coverage of screening mammography services.* Medicare Part B pays for screening mammography services if they are furnished by a supplier of screening mammography services that meets the certification requirements of section 354 of the PHS Act, as implemented by 21 CFR part 900, subpart B. 


(d) *Limitations on coverage of screening mammography services.* The following limitations apply to coverage of screening mammography services as described in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section:


(1) The service must be, at a minimum a two-view exposure (that is, a cranio-caudal and a medial lateral oblique view) of each breast. 


(2) Payment may not be made for screening mammography performed on a woman under age 35. 


(3) Payment may be made for only 1 screening mammography performed on a woman over age 34, but under age 40. 


(4) For an asymptomatic woman over 39 years of age, payment may be made for a screening mammography performed after at least 11 months have passed following the month in which the last screening mammography was performed.



---

[N] [59 FR 49833, Sept. 30, 1994, as amended at 60 FR 14224, Mar. 16, 1995; 60 FR 63176, Dec. 8, 1995; 62 FR 59100, Oct. 31, 1997; 63 FR 4596, Jan. 30, 1998]




