# § 424.507   Ordering covered items and services for Medicare beneficiaries.

(a) *Conditions for payment of claims for ordered covered imaging and clinical laboratory services and items of durable medical equipment, prosthetics, orthotics, and supplies (DMEPOS)*—(1) *Ordered covered imaging, clinical laboratory services, and DMEPOS item claims.* To receive payment for ordered imaging, clinical laboratory services, and DMEPOS items (excluding home health services described in § 424.507(b), and Part B drugs), a provider or supplier must meet all of the following requirements:


(i) The ordered covered imaging, clinical laboratory services, and DMEPOS items (excluding home health services described in paragraph (b) of this section, and Part B drugs) must have been ordered by a physician or, when permitted, an eligible professional (as defined in § 424.506(a) of this part).


(ii) The claim from the provider or supplier must contain the legal name and the National Provider Identifier (NPI) of the physician or the eligible professional (as defined in § 424.506(a) of this part) who ordered the item or service.


(iii) The physician or, when permitted, other eligible professional, as defined in § 424.506(a), who ordered the item or service must—


(A) Be identified by his or her legal name;


(B) Be identified by his or her NPI; and


(C)(*1*) Be enrolled in Medicare in an approved status; or


(*2*) Have validly opted-out of the Medicare program.


(iv) If the item or service is ordered by—


(A) An unlicensed resident (as defined in § 413.75), or by a non-enrolled licensed resident (as defined in § 413.75), the claim must identify a teaching physician, who must be enrolled in Medicare in an approved status, as follows:


(*1*) As the ordering supplier.


(*2*) By his or her legal name.


(*3*) By his/her NPI.


(B) A licensed resident (as defined in § 413.75), he or she must have a provisional license or be otherwise permitted by State law, where the resident is enrolled in an approved graduate medical education program, to practice or order such items and services, the claim must identify by legal name and NPI the—


(*1*) Resident, who is enrolled in Medicare in an approved status to order; or


(*2*) Teaching physician, who is enrolled in Medicare in an approved status.


(2) *Part B beneficiary claims.* To receive payment for ordered covered items and services listed at § 424.507(a), a beneficiary's claim must meet all of the following requirements:


(i) The physician or, when permitted, other eligible professional (as defined § 424.506(a)) who ordered the item or service must—


(A) Be identified by his or her legal name; and


(B)(*1*) Be enrolled in Medicare in an approved status; or


(*2*) Have validly opted out of the Medicare program.


(ii) If the item or service is ordered by—


(A) An unlicensed resident (as defined in § 413.75) or a non-enrolled licensed resident, (as defined in § 413.75) the claim must identify a teaching physician, who must be enrolled in Medicare in an approved status as follows:


(*1*) As the ordering supplier.


(*2*) By his or her legal name.


(B) A licensed resident (as defined in § 413.75), he or she must have a provisional license or are otherwise permitted by State law, where the resident is enrolled in an approved graduate medical education program, to practice or to order such items and services, the claim must identify by legal name the—


(*1*) Resident, who is enrolled in Medicare in an approved status to order; or


(*2*) Teaching physician, who is enrolled in Medicare in an approved status.


(b) *Conditions for payment of claims for covered home health and hospice services.* To receive payment for covered Part A or Part B home health services or for covered hospice services, a provider's home health or hospice services claim must meet all of the following requirements:


(1) The ordering/certifying physician for hospice or home health services, or, for home health services, the ordering/certifying physician assistant, nurse practitioner, or clinical nurse specialist working in accordance with State law, must meet all of the following requirements:


(i) Be identified by his or her legal name.


(ii) Be identified by his or her NPI.


(iii)(A) Be enrolled in Medicare in an approved status; or


(B) Have validly opted-out of the Medicare program.


(2) If the services were ordered/certified by—


(i) An unlicensed resident, as defined in § 413.75, or by a non-enrolled licensed resident, as defined in § 413.75, the claim must identify a teaching physician who must be enrolled in Medicare in an approved status—


(A) As the ordering/certifying supplier;


(B) By his or her legal name; and


(C) By his or her NPI.


(ii) A licensed resident (as defined in § 413.75), he or she must have a provisional license or are otherwise permitted by State law, where the resident is enrolled in an approved graduate medical education program, to practice or to order/certify such items and services, the claim must identify by legal name and NPI the—


(A) Resident, who is enrolled in Medicare in an approved status to order; or


(B) Teaching physician, who is enrolled in Medicare in an approved status.


(3) For claims for hospice services, the requirements of this paragraph (b) apply with respect to any physician described in § 418.22(c) of this chapter who made the applicable certification described in § 418.22(c) of this chapter.


(c) *Denial of provider- or supplier-submitted claims.* Notwithstanding § 424.506(c)(3), a Medicare contractor denies a claim from a provider or a supplier for covered items and services described in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section if the claim does not meet the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) and (b) of this section, respectively.


(d) *Denial of beneficiary-submitted claims.* A Medicare contractor denies a claim from a Medicare beneficiary for covered items or services described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section if the claim does not meet the requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section.



---

[N] [77 FR 25317, Apr. 27, 2012, as amended at 85 FR 27625, May 8, 2020; 88 FR 51199, Aug. 2, 2023]




