# § 86.6   Procedures.

(a) *Requirements for criminal history background checks.* (1) All criminal history background checks required by this part must be initiated, tracked, and overseen by properly trained and vetted individuals who have been determined to be responsible for personnel security pursuant to DoD Instruction 5200.02 or human resource functions pursuant to Volume 731 of DoD Instruction 1400.25. Program managers, supervisors, and others not routinely performing personnel security and human resource functions are prohibited from managing the criminal history checks.


(2) All employment applications completed by individuals subject to this part must comply with the requirements of 42 U.S.C. 13041(d).


(3) The DoD Component will ensure that only authorized ISPs are used.


(4) When permitted by the host government, foreign government checks of individuals serving on DoD installations overseas must be requested directly by the employing Military Service or agency in accordance with Volume 1231 of DoD Instruction 1400.25. As an alternative, DoD Components may request that overseas Military Service investigative elements obtain appropriate host-government checks and accept such checks if they are comparable to those required by 42 U.S.C. 13041. Where it is not possible to obtain criminal history checks comparable to those required by 42 U.S.C. 13041, foreign nationals will not be eligible for employment in child care services.


(5) Individuals subject to criminal history background checks are:


(i) All personnel employed or performing duties in DoD Child and Youth or other sanctioned child care services programs.


(ii) Individuals providing in-home FCC.


(iii) Personnel employed or performing duties in child and youth recreational and athletic programs (*e.g.,* Morale, Welfare, and Recreation), including instructors and, when working in a facility when children and youth are present, custodial personnel.


(iv) Individuals employed or performing duties in a DoDEA school (whether or not directly involved with teaching), including but not limited to teachers, administrators, other professional staff, aides, bus drivers, janitors, cafeteria workers, nurses, and attendants.


(v) Chaplains, chaplains' assistants, religious program specialists, and other individuals employed or performing child care services duties for children under 18 years of age on a DoD installation or as part of a military-sanctioned program.


(vi) Foster and respite child care providers on a DoD installation, program, or as part of a military-sanctioned activity.


(vii) Health and mental health care personnel, employed or performing child care services duties on a DoD installation, in a DoD sanctioned program, or as part of a military-sanctioned activity, including but not limited to physicians, dentists, nurse practitioners, clinical social workers, physical therapists, speech-language pathologists, clinical support staff (including residents), registered nurses, licensed practical nurses, nursing assistants, play therapists, and technicians.


(viii) Individuals employed or performing child care duties in social services, residential care, rehabilitation programs, detention, and correctional services on a DoD installation, program, or as part of a military-sanctioned activity.


(ix) Any other individuals reasonably expected to have regular contact with children on a DoD installation, in a DoD sanctioned program, or as part of a military-sanctioned activity, including specified volunteers and any person 18 years of age or older residing in an FCC, foster, or respite care home. Healthcare providers participating in TRICARE shall be governed by TRICARE policy.


(6) The DoD Components will also determine any other classes of positions subject to criminal history background checks, taking care to ensure that all individuals who have regular contact with children when providing child care services are investigated and the requirement must pertain to the class as a whole.


(7) Individuals designated in non-specified volunteer positions must always be under direct LOSS in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section.


(b) *Types of background checks.* Procedures for conducting a background check on individuals in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) through (ix) of this section differ based on the employment status of the individual. Military members are subject to the background check requirements of DoD Instruction 5200.02 and this section. The FBI criminal history background checks for all categories of individuals must be fingerprint-based and fingerprints must be captured using an FBI-approved system. SCHR checks may require hardcopy fingerprint submissions. State checks must include the state child abuse and neglect repository and the state sex offender registry. The Component must request a check of the state child abuse and neglect repository and the State sex offender registry if they are not automatically checked as part of the standard SCHR check.


(1) *Criminal history background checks for DoD civilian and military personnel who are investigated at the NACI or a higher level pursuant to DoD's personnel security program.* (i) DoD civilian and military personnel required by DoD Instruction 5200.02 to be investigated according to the requirements of the National Agency Check and Inquiries (NACI) or a higher level investigation and who have regular contact with children under 18 years of age in DoD-sanctioned programs will be investigated and adjudicated in accordance with the provisions of DoD Instruction 5200.02.


(ii) These personnel will also be subject to the additional requirements of the Child Care National Agency Check and Inquiries (CNACI) and the criteria for presumptive and automatic disqualification as specified in paragraph (c) of this section.


(2) *Criminal history background checks for civilian employees (APF and NAF).* (i) In accordance with 42 U.S.C. 13041 and Volume 731 and Subchapter 1403 of DoD Instruction 1400.25, complete a CNACI, which includes an FBI criminal history background check conducted through the Criminal Justice Information Services Division of the FBI and SCHR checks through State repositories of all States that an employee or prospective employee lists as current and former residences on an employment application. Results of an advanced FBI fingerprint check must be provided before completion of the full CNACI to determine employment under LOSS.


(ii) Individuals with a prior DoD affiliation must also complete an IRC, which includes an installation law enforcement check, drug and alcohol records check, and a check of the Family Advocacy Program (FAP) records for a minimum of 2 years before the date of the application.


(3) *Criminal history background checks for FCC providers and contractors.* (i) In accordance with 42 U.S.C. 13041, complete a CNACI, which includes an FBI criminal history background check conducted through the Criminal Justice Identification Services Division of the FBI and SCHR checks through State repositories of all States that a provider or contractor or prospective provider or contractor lists as current and former residences in an employment application. Results of an advanced FBI fingerprint check must be provided before completion of the full CNACI. Results for contractors may be used to determine employment under LOSS.


(ii) Individuals with a prior DoD affiliation must also complete an IRC, including an installation law enforcement check, drug and alcohol records check, and a check of the FAP records for a minimum of 2 years before the date of the application.


(4) *Criminal history background checks for others.* (i) In accordance with 42 U.S.C. 13041, only an FBI advanced fingerprint check is required for criminal history background checks for volunteers and persons 18 years of age or older residing in an FCC, foster, or respite care home.


(ii) Individuals with a prior DoD affiliation must also complete an IRC to include: an installation law enforcement check, drug and alcohol records check, and a check of the FAP records for a minimum of 2 years before the date of the application.


(5) *Timely completion.* To ensure timely completion, the DoD Components will establish procedures to initiate or request criminal history background check results, follow up to ensure checks have been completed, and address situations where there is a delay in receiving results. In no event will an individual subject to this part be presumed to have a favorable background check merely because there has been a delay in receiving the results of the requisite background check. If no response from the state(s) is received within 60 days, determinations based upon the CNACI report may be made.


(c) *Criteria for disqualification based on results on criminal history background checks.* The ultimate decision to determine how to use information obtained from the criminal history background checks in selection for positions involving the care, treatment, supervision, or education of children must incorporate a common sense decision based upon all known facts. Adverse information is evaluated by the DoD Component who is qualified at the appropriate level of command in interpreting criminal history background checks. All information of record both favorable and unfavorable will be assessed in terms of its relevance, recentness, and seriousness. Likewise, positive mitigating factors should be considered. Final suitability decisions shall be made by that commander or designee. Criteria that will result in disqualification of an applicant require careful screening of the data. A disqualifying event may be the basis for a non-selection, withdrawal of a tentative offer of employment, ineligibility for facility access, removal from a contract, a suitability action under 5 CFR part 731, a probationary termination, an adverse action, or other appropriate action.


(1) *Criteria for automatic disqualification.* No person, regardless of circumstances, will be approved to provide child care services pursuant to this part if the background check discloses:


(i) That the individual has been convicted in either a civilian or military court (to include any general, special or summary court-martial conviction) or received non-judicial punishment (under Article 15 or chapter 47 of Title 10, U.S.C., also known and referred to in this part as “the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ)”) for any of the following:


(A) A sexual offense.


(B) Any criminal offense involving a child victim.


(C) A felony drug offense.


(ii) That the individual has been held to be negligent in a civil adjudication or administrative proceeding concerning the death or serious injury to a child or dependent person entrusted to the individual's care.


(2) [Reserved]


(d) *Suitability and fitness determinations for individuals involved with the provision of child care services.* Suitability and fitness determinations for individuals subject to this part will be made in accordance with Volume 731, Volume 1231, and Subchapter 1403 of DoD Instruction 1400.25, and part 1201 of 5 U.S.C., as appropriate. The following may be the basis for non-selection, withdrawal of a tentative offer of employment, ineligibility for facility access, removal from a contract, a suitability action under DoD Instruction 1400.25, a probationary termination, an adverse action, or other appropriate action.


(1) *Criteria for presumptive disqualification.* Officials charged with making determinations pursuant to this part must include in the record a written justification for any favorable determination made where background check findings include any of the following presumptively disqualifying information:


(i) A FAP record indicating that the individual met criteria for child abuse or neglect or civil adjudication that the individual committed child abuse or neglect.


(ii) Evidence of an act or acts by the individual that tend to indicate poor judgment, unreliability, or untrustworthiness in providing child care services.


(iii) Evidence or documentation of the individual's past or present dependency on or addiction to any controlled or psychoactive substances, narcotics, cannabis, or other dangerous drug without evidence of rehabilitation.


(iv) A conviction, including any general, special, or summary court-martial conviction, or non-judicial punishment under Article 15 of the UCMJ for:


(A) A crime of violence committed against an adult.


(B) Illegal or improper use, possession, or addiction to any controlled or psychoactive substances, narcotics, cannabis, or other dangerous drug.


(v) A civil adjudication that terminated the individual's parental rights to his or her child, except in cases where the birth parent places his or her child for adoption.


(2) *Evaluation of presumptively disqualifying information.* The DoD Components will establish and oversee procedures for the evaluation of presumptively disqualifying information for all categories of individuals in paragraph (b) of this section. Evaluation of presumptively disqualifying information for APF and NAF personnel must be in accordance with Volume 731 and Subchapter 1403 of DoD Instruction 1400.25, respectively.


(3) *Criteria for disqualification under LOSS.* If an investigation of an individual who is currently working under LOSS subsequently results in an unfavorable determination, the DoD Components will take action to protect children by reassigning or removing the individual from employment, contract, or volunteer status.


(4) *Disputes and appeals.* The DoD Components will establish and oversee procedures for the communication of determinations and the appeal of unfavorable determinations for all categories of individuals in paragraph (b) of this section. The procedures for civilian personnel are subject to Volume 731 of DoD Instruction 1400.25 for APF employees and Subchapter 1403 of DoD Instruction 1400.25 for NAF employees.


(e) *Reinvestigation.* (1) All DoD civilian employees (both APF and NAF), contractors, military personnel, and any other individuals reasonably expected to have regular contact with children on a DoD installation, program, or as part of a military-sanctioned activity, including specified volunteers and any person 18 years of age or older residing in an FCC, foster, or respite care home, who continue to perform duties in the position for which their initial background check was conducted, must undergo a reinvestigation every 5 years. The reinvestigation must consist of the same check conducted for the initial investigation as outlined in paragraph (b) of this section.


(2) All FCC providers and adults residing in an FCC home must undergo an annual reinvestigation utilizing the Special Agreement Check (SAC) for childcare providers. The SAC reinvestigation consists of an update to the initial investigation as outlined in paragraph (b) of this section.


(3) If the reinvestigation results in an unfavorable determination, the DoD Components will take action to protect children by reassigning or removing the individual from employment, contract, or volunteer status.


(4) If derogatory information surfaces within the 5 years before the reinvestigation, the DoD Component will take action to protect children by reassigning or suspending from having contact with children, any individual, contractor or volunteer until the case is resolved.


(f) *Self-reporting.* (1) Individuals who have regular contact with children under 18 years of age in DoD-sanctioned programs who have a completed background check are required to immediately report subsequent automatic disqualification criteria under paragraph (c)(1) of this section and presumptive disqualification criteria under paragraphs (c)(2)(i), (iv), and (v) of this section.


(2) The DoD Components will establish procedures for:


(i) Informing individuals of the requirement to immediately report any incident or conviction that may invalidate their prior background check and make them ineligible to work or have contact with children.


(ii) Responding to and evaluating reports made by such individuals, and taking appropriate action until the case has been resolved or closed.


(g) *Eligibility to perform duties under LOSS.* The DoD Components will establish Component-specific procedures, policies, and requirements, subject to the requirements of this paragraph, to permit applicants for whom a criminal history background check has been initiated but not yet completed, to perform duties under LOSS upon favorable findings of preliminary investigations.


(1) *No presumption of right.* No individual will be permitted to perform duties under LOSS in a position subject to criminal history background check without authorizing policy or other written permission from a DoD Component head.


(2) *Preliminary investigations required.* No individual will be permitted to perform duties under LOSS in a position subject to criminal history background check unless the following investigative elements have been reviewed and determined favorably:


(i) An IRC, including installation law enforcement records check, drug and alcohol records, and FAP records check for a minimum of 2 years before the date of the application if the individual has a preexisting DoD affiliation.


(ii) Initial results from the advanced FBI fingerprint criminal history background check (not the full check).


(3) *Exception for non-specified volunteers.* Due to the controlled, limited duration of an activity for these individuals, an advanced FBI fingerprint criminal history background check is not required. Non-specified volunteers will be permitted to perform duties and services under LOSS for the duration of the activity.


(4) *Supervisor requirements.* The supervisor must be a person who:


(i) Has undergone and successfully completed the required background check.


(ii) Has complied, as required, with the periodic reinvestigation requirement for a recurring criminal history background check.


(iii) Has not previously exhibited reckless disregard for an obligation to supervise an employee, contractor, or volunteer.


(5) *Video surveillance.* The use of video surveillance equipment to provide temporary oversight for individuals whose required background checks have been initiated but not completed is acceptable provided it is continuously monitored by an individual who has undergone and successfully completed all required background checks. This provision shall meet the intent of a flexible and reasonable alternative for “direct sight supervision.”


(6) *Conspicuous identification of individuals subject to LOSS.* Individuals permitted to perform duties solely under LOSS must be conspicuously marked by means of distinctive clothing, badges, wristbands, or other visible and apparent markings. The purpose of such markings must be communicated to staff, customers, parents, and guardians by conspicuous posting or printed information.


(7) *Permissible performance of duties without supervision.* Individuals otherwise required to perform duties only under LOSS may perform duties without supervision if:


(i) Interaction with a child occurs in the presence of the child's parent or guardian;


(ii) Interaction with children is in a medical facility, subject to supervisory policies of the facility, and in the presence of a mandated reporter of child abuse; or


(iii) Interaction is necessary to prevent death or serious harm to the child, and supervision is impractical or unfeasible (*e.g.,* response to a medical emergency, emergency evacuation of a child from a hazardous location).




