# ยง 130.340   Specific program responsibilities.

(a) *Policy development.* The AA/SBDC will establish program policies and procedures to improve the delivery of services by SBDCs to the small business community, and to enhance compliance with applicable laws, regulations, OMB guidelines, and Executive orders. The AA/SBDC will, to the extent practicable, consult with the recognized association.


(b) *Program administration.* The AA/SBDC or designee will recommend the annual program budget, establish appropriate funding levels in compliance with the statute, and review the annual budgets submitted by each applicant. The AA/SBDC will also select applicants to participate in the Program, to maintain a clearinghouse to provide for the dissemination and exchange of information between SBDCs, and to conduct audits of recipients of SBDC grants.


(c) *Responsibilities of SBDC Lead Center Directors.* (1) The SBDC Lead Center Director must be an individual dedicating not less than 75 percent of their time to the supervision and control of the SBDC on behalf of the recipient organization. The position may not be held by a company or contractor.


(2) The SBDC Lead Center Director position must have direct reporting authority, at a minimum, equivalent to that of a college dean in a university setting or the third level of management or administration within a state agency.


(3) The Lead Center Director will direct and monitor program activities and financial affairs of the SBDC network to ensure effective delivery of services to the small business community, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, 2 CFR part 200, and the terms and conditions of the cooperative agreement.


(4) The SBDC Lead Center Director must have the authority necessary to control all personnel, budgets, and expenditures under the cooperative agreement.


(5) The SBDC Lead Center Director will serve as the SBA's principal contact for all matters involving the SBDC network including, but not limited to, ensuring that state and local needs are addressed; financial and programmatic reporting are submitted; service centers are providing access to training; employees have experience necessary to conduct meaningful counseling; etc.



---

[N] [88 FR 76643, Nov. 7, 2023]






