# ยง 4.125   Preemployment inquiries.

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, a recipient may not conduct a preemployment medical examination or may not make preemployment inquiry of an applicant as to whether the applicant is a disabled person or as to the nature of severity of a disability. A recipient may, however, make preemployment inquiry into an applicant's ability to perform job-related functions.


(b) When a recipient is taking remedial action to correct the effects of past discrimination, or when a recipient is taking voluntary action to overcome the effects of conditions that resulted in limited participation in its federally assisted program or activity, or when a recipient is taking affirmative action pursuant to section 503 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the recipient may invite applicants for employment to indicate whether and to what extent they are disabled: *Provided,* That:


(1) The recipient makes clear to the applicant that the information requested is intended for use solely in connection with its remedial action obligations or its voluntary or affirmative action efforts; and


(2) The recipient makes clear to the applicant that the information is being requested on a voluntary basis, that it will be kept confidential as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, that refusal to provide it will not subject the applicant to any adverse treatment, and that it will be used only in accordance with this subpart.


(c) Nothing in this section shall prohibit a recipient from conditioning an offer of employment on the results of a medical examination conducted prior to the employee's entrance on duty: *Provided,* That:


(1) All entering employees are subjected to such an examination regardless of disability; and


(2) The results of such an examination are used only in accordance with the requirements of this subpart.


(d) Information obtained in accordance with this section as to the medical condition or history of the applicant must be collected on separate forms. The recipient shall retain each form as a record for three years from the date the applicant's employment ends, or, if not hired, from the date of application. Each form must be accorded confidentiality as a medical record, except that:


(1) Supervisors and managers may be informed regarding restrictions on the work or duties that may be assigned to disabled persons and regarding necessary accommodations;


(2) First aid and safety personnel may be informed, where appropriate, if the condition associated with the disability might require emergency treatment; and


(3) Government officials investigating compliance with the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 shall be provided relevant information upon request.



---

[N] [45 FR 14535, Mar. 6, 1980, as amended at 53 FR 19244, May 27, 1988]




