# ยง 1000.745   What are self-governance stable base budgets?

(a) A Tribe/Consortium self-governance stable base budget is the amount of recurring funding to be transferred to the Tribe/Consortium, for a period specified in the funding agreement. This amount must be adjusted to reflect subsequent annual changes in Congressional appropriations. It includes amounts that are eligible to be base transferred or have been base transferred from BIA budget accounts to self-governance budget accounts. As allowed by Congress, self-governance stable base budgets are derived from:


(1) A Tribe's/Consortium's Public Law 93-638 contract amounts;


(2) Negotiated agency, regional, and central office amounts;


(3) Other recurring funding;


(4) Special Projects, if applicable;


(5) Programmatic shortfall;


(6) Tribal priority allocation increases and decreases;


(7) Pay costs and retirement cost adjustments; and


(8) Any other inflationary cost adjustments.


(b) Self-governance stable base budgets must not include any non-recurring program funds, construction and wildland firefighting accounts, Congressional earmarks, or other funds specifically excluded by Congress. These funds are negotiated annually and may be included in the funding agreement but must not be included in the self-governance stable base budget.


(c) Self-governance stable base budgets may not include other recurring type programs that are currently in Tribal priority allocations (TPA) such as general assistance, housing improvement program (HIP), road maintenance and contract support. Should these later four programs ever become base transferred to Tribes, then they may be included in a self-governance Tribe's stable base budget.


(d) A funding agreement shall not specify the funding associated with a program described in 25 U.S.C. 5363(b)(2) or (c) without the Secretary's agreement.






