# § 530.1   Definitions.

(a) The meaning of the terms person, employ, employer, employee, goods, and production, as used in this part, is the same as in the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended.


(b)* Administrator* as used in this part means the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division, U.S. Department of Labor, or an authorized representative of the Administrator.


(c) *Industrial homeworker* and *homeworker,* as used in this part, mean any employee employed or suffered or permitted to perform industrial homework for an employer.


(d) *Industrial homework,* as used in this part, means the production by any person in or about a home, apartment, tenement, or room in a residential establishment of goods for an employer who suffers or permits such production, regardless of the source (whether obtained from an employer or elsewhere) of the materials used by the homeworker in such production.


(e) The women's apparel industry is defined as follows: The production of women's, misses' and juniors' dresses, washable service garments, blouses, and neckwear from woven or purchased knit fabric; women's, misses', children's and infants' underwear, nightwear, and negligees from woven fabrics; corsets and other body supporting garments from any material; other garments similar to the foregoing; and infants; and children's outerwear.


(f) The jewelry manufacturing industry is defined as follows:


(1)(i) The manufacturing, processing, or assembling, wholly or partially from any material, of jewelry, commonly or commercially so known. Jewelry as used herein includes without limitation, religious, school, college, and fraternal insignia; articles of ornament or adornment designed to be worn on apparel or carried on or about the person, including, without limitation, cigar and cigarette cases, holders, and lighters; watch cases; metal mesh bags and metal watch bracelets; and chain, mesh, and parts for use in the manufacture of any of the articles included in this definition. Jewelry as used in this part does not include pocket knives, cigar cutters, badges, emblems, military and naval insignia, belt buckles, and handbag and pocketbook frames and clasps, or commercial compacts and vanity cases, except when made from or embellished with precious metals or precious, semiprecious, synthetic or imitation stones, or the assaying, refining, and smelting of base or precious metals.


(ii) The term *parts* as used in paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section does not include parts which are used predominantly for products other than jewelry, such as springs, blades, and nail files. The term *commercial compacts and vanity cases* as used means compacts and vanity cases which bear the trade name or mark of a cosmetic manufacturer and are made for the purpose of distributing or advertising said cosmetics.


(2) The manufacturing, cutting, polishing, encrusting, engraving, and setting of precious, semiprecious, synthetic, and imitation stones.


(3) The manufacturing, drilling, and stringing of pearls, imitation pearls, and beads designed for use in the manufacture of jewelry.


(4) The term *hand-fashioned jewelry* as used in § 530.12(b) means articles of jewelry commonly known as genuine Navajo, Pueblo, Hopi, or Zuni handmade jewelry which in all elements of design, fashioning and ornamentation are handmade by methods and with the help of only such devices as permit the maker to determine the shape and design of each individual product: *Provided,* That silver used in the making of such jewelry shall be of at least nine hundred fineness, and that turquoise and other stones used shall be genuine stones, uncolored and untreated by artificial means: *And provided further,* That power machinery is permitted in the production of findings, in the cutting and polishing of stones, in the buffing and polishing of completed products, and in incidental functions. Equipment specifically prohibited shall include hand presses, foot presses, drop hammers, and similar equipment: *And provided further,* That solder may be of less silver content than nine hundred; *And provided further,* That findings may be mechanically made of any metal by Indians or others: *And provided further,* That turquoise and other stones may be cut and polished by Indians or others without restrictions as to methods or equipment used.


(g) The knitted outerwear industry is defined as follows: The knitting from any yarn or mixture of yarns and the further manufacturing, dyeing or other finishing of knitted garments, knitted garment sections, or knitted garment accessories for use as external apparel or covering which are partially or completely manufactured in the same establishment as that where the knitting process is performed; and the manufacture of bathing suits from any purchased fabric: *Provided,* That the manufacturing, dyeing or other finishing of the following shall not be included:


(1) Knitted fabric, as distinguished from garment sections or garments, for sale as such.


(2) Fulled suitings, coatings, topcoatings, and overcoatings.


(3) Garments or garment accessories made from purchased fabric, except bathing suits.


(4) Gloves or mittens.


(5) Hosiery.


(6) Knitted garments or garment accessories for use as underwear, sleeping wear, or negligees.


(7) Fleece-lined garments made from knitted fabric containing cotton only or containing any mixture of cotton and not more than 25 percent, by weight, of wool or animal fiber other than silk.


(8) Knitted shirts of cotton or any synthetic fiber or any mixture of such fibers which have been knit on machinery of 10-cut or fine: *Provided,* That this exception shall not be construed to exclude from the knitted outerwear industry and the manufacturing, dyeing, or other finishing of knitted shirts made in the same establishment as that where the knitting process is performed, if such shirts are made wholly or in part of fibers other than those specified in this clause, or if such shirts of any fiber are knit on machinery coarser than 10-cut.


(h) The gloves and mittens industry is defined as follows: The production of gloves and mittens from any material or combination of materials, except athletic gloves and mittens. 


(i) The button and buckle manufacturing industry is defined as follows: The manufacture of buttons, buckles, and slides, and the manufacture of blanks and parts for such articles from any material except metal, for use on apparel.


(j) The handkerchief manufacturing industry is defined as follows: The manufacture of men's, women's and children's handkerchiefs, plain or ornamented, from any materials.


(k) The embroideries industry is defined as follows: The production of all kinds of hand and machine-made embroideries and ornamental stitchings, including but not by way of limitation, tucking shirring, smocking, hemstitching, hand rolling, fagoting, Bonnez embroidery, appliqueing, crochet beading, hand drawing, machine drawing, rhinestone trimming, sequin trimming, spangle trimming, eyelets, passementerie, pleating, the application of rhinestones and nailheads, stamping and perforating of designs, Schifli embroidery and laces, burnt-out laces and velvets, Swiss handmachine embroidery, thread splitting, embroidery thread cutting, scallop cutting, lace cutting, lace making-up, making-up of embroidered yard goods, straight cutting of embroidery and cutting out of embroidery, embroidery trimmings, bindings (not made in textile establishments), pipings and emblems: *Provided,* That (1) the foregoing when produced or performed by a manufacturer of a garment, fabric or other article for use on such garment, fabric or other article, and (2) the manufacture of covered buttons and buckles, shall not be included.


(l) As used throughout this part the terms “Secretary” or “Secretary of Labor” shall mean the Secretary of Labor, U.S. Department of Labor, or his or her designee.



---

[N] [24 FR 729, Feb. 3, 1959, as amended at 46 FR 50349, Oct. 9, 1981; 49 FR 22036, May 24, 1984; 53 FR 45722, Nov. 10, 1988; 61 FR 19986, May 3, 1996; 82 FR 2228, Jan. 9, 2017]




