# § 238.311   Single car test.

(a) Except for self-propelled passenger cars, single car tests of all passenger cars and all unpowered vehicles used in passenger trains shall be performed in accordance with either APTA Standard SS-M-005-98, “Code of Tests for Passenger Car Equipment Using Single Car Testing Device,” published March, 1998; or an alternative procedure approved by FRA pursuant to § 238.21. The incorporation by reference of this APTA standard was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain a copy of the incorporated document from the American Public Transit Association, 1201 New York Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20005. You may inspect a copy of the document at the Federal Railroad Administration, Docket Clerk, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., Washington, DC or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(b) Each single car test required by this section shall be performed by a qualified maintenance person.


(c) A railroad shall perform a single car test of the brake system of a car or vehicle described in paragraph (a) of this section if the car or vehicle is found with one or more of the following wheel defects:


(1) Built-up tread;


(2) Slid flat wheel;


(3) Thermal crack;


(4) Overheated wheel; or


(5) Shelling.


(d) A railroad need not perform the single car test required in paragraph (c) of this section, if the railroad can establish that the wheel defect is other than built-up tread and is due to a cause other than a defective brake system on the car.


(e) Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, a railroad shall perform a single car test of the brake system of a car or vehicle described in paragraph (a) of this section when:


(1) Except for private cars, a car or vehicle is placed in service after having been out of service for 30 days or more; or 


(2) One or more of the following conventional air brake equipment items is removed, repaired, or replaced:


(i) Relay valve;


(ii) Service portion;


(iii) Emergency portion; or


(iv) Pipe bracket.


(f) *Exception.* If the single car test cannot be made at the point where repairs are made, the car may be moved in passenger service to the next forward location where the test can be made. A railroad may move a car in this fashion only after visually verifying an application and release of the brakes on both sides of the car that was repaired, and provided that the car is appropriately tagged to indicate the need to perform a single car test. The single car test shall be completed prior to, or as a part of, the car's next calendar day mechanical inspection.


(g) If one or more of the following conventional air brake equipment items is removed, repaired, or replaced only that portion which is renewed or replaced must be tested to satisfy the provisions of this section:


(1) Brake reservoir;


(2) Brake cylinder;


(3) Piston assembly;


(4) Vent valve;


(5) Quick service valve;


(6) Brake cylinder release valve;


(7) Modulating valve or slack adjuster; or


(8) Angle cock or cutout cock.



---

[N] [64 FR 25660, May 12, 1999, as amended at 65 FR 41309, July 3, 2000; 74 FR 25174, May 27, 2009]




