# § 431.804   Definitions.

As used in this subpart—


*Active case* means an individual determined to be currently authorized as eligible for Medicaid or CHIP by the State.


*Corrective action* means action(s) to be taken by the State to reduce major error causes, trends in errors or other vulnerabilities for the purpose of reducing improper payments in Medicaid and CHIP.


*Deficiency* means a finding in processing identified through active case review or negative case review that does not meet the definition of an eligibility error.


*Eligibility* means meeting the State's categorical and financial criteria for receipt of benefits under the Medicaid or CHIP programs.


*Eligibility error* is an error resulting from the States' improper application of Federal rules and the State's documented policies and procedures that causes a beneficiary to be determined eligible when he or she is ineligible for Medicaid or CHIP, causes a beneficiary to be determined eligible for the incorrect type of assistance, causes applications for Medicaid or CHIP to be improperly denied by the State, or causes existing cases to be improperly terminated from Medicaid or CHIP by the State. An eligibility error may also be caused when a redetermination did not occur timely or a required element of the eligibility determination process (for example income) cannot be verified as being performed/completed by the state.


*Medicaid Eligibility Quality Control (MEQC)* means a program designed to reduce erroneous expenditures by monitoring eligibility determinations and work in conjunction with the PERM program established in subpart Q of this part.


*MEQC pilot* refers to the process used to implement the MEQC Program.


*MEQC review period* is the 12-month timespan from which the State will sample and review cases.


*Negative case* means an individual denied or terminated eligibility for Medicaid or CHIP by the State.


*Off-years* are the scheduled 2-year period of time between a States' designated PERM years.


*Payment Error Rate Measurement (PERM) Program* means the program set forth at subpart Q of this part utilized to calculate a national improper payment rate for Medicaid and CHIP.


*PERM year* is the scheduled and designated year for a State to participate in, and be measured by, the PERM Program set forth at subpart Q of this part.



---

[N] [82 FR 31182, July 5, 2017]




