# § 2.15   Under Secretary for Trade and Foreign Agricultural Affairs.

(a) The following delegations of authority are made by the Secretary of Agriculture to the Under Secretary for Trade and Foreign Agricultural Affairs:


(1) *Related to foreign agriculture.* (i) Coordinate the carrying out by Department agencies of their functions involving foreign agricultural policies and programs and their operations and activities in foreign areas. Act as liaison on these matters and functions relating to foreign agriculture between the Department of Agriculture and the Department of State, the United States Trade Representative, the Trade Policy Committee, the Agency for International Development, and other departments, agencies, and committees of the U.S. Government, foreign governments, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, the European Union, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Inter-American Development Bank, the Organization of American States, and other public and private U.S. and international organizations, and the contracting parties to the World Trade Organization (WTO).


(ii) Administer Departmental programs concerned with development of foreign markets for agricultural products of the United States except functions relating to export marketing operations under section 32 of the Act of August 23, 1935, as amended (7 U.S.C. 612c), delegated to the Under Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs, and utilization research delegated to the Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics.


(iii) Conduct studies of worldwide production, trade, marketing, prices, consumption, and other factors affecting exports and imports of U.S. agricultural commodities; obtain information on methods used by other countries to move farm commodities in world trade on a competitive basis for use in the development of programs of this Department; provide information to domestic producers, the agricultural trade, the public and other interests; and promote normal commercial markets abroad. This delegation excludes basic and long-range analyses of world conditions and developments affecting supply, demand, and trade in farm products and general economic analyses of the international financial and monetary aspects of agricultural affairs as assigned to the Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics.






(iv) Conduct functions of the Department relating to WTO, the Trade Expansion Act of 1962 (19 U.S.C. 1801 *et seq.*), the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2101 *et seq.*), the Trade Agreements Act of 1979 (19 U.S.C. 2501 *et seq.*), the Omnibus Trade and Competition Act of 1988 (19 U.S.C. 2901 *et seq.*), and other legislation affecting international agricultural trade including the programs designed to reduce foreign tariffs and other trade barriers.




(v) Maintain a worldwide agricultural intelligence and reporting system, including provision for foreign agricultural representation abroad to protect and promote U.S. agricultural interests and to acquire information on demand, competition, marketing, and distribution of U.S. agricultural commodities abroad pursuant to title VI of the Agricultural Act of 1954, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1761-1768).


(vi) Exercise the Department's functions with respect to the International Coffee Agreement or any such future agreement.


(vii) Administer functions of the Department relating to import controls, except those functions reserved to the Secretary in paragraph (b) of this section and those relating to section 8e of the Agricultural Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 608e-1), as assigned to the Under Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs. These include:


(A) Functions under section 22 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1933, as amended (7 U.S.C. 624);


(B) General note 15(c) to the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (19 U.S.C. 1202);


(C) Requests for emergency relief from duty-free imports of perishable products filed with the Department of Agriculture under section 213(f) of the Caribbean Basin Recovery Act of 1983 (19 U.S.C. 2703(f));


(D) Section 404 of the Trade and Tariff Act of 1984 (19 U.S.C. 2112 note);


(E) Section 204(d) of the Andean Trade Preference Act (19 U.S.C. 3203(d));




(F) [Reserved]




(G) Section 301(a) of the United States-Canada Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act (19 U.S.C. 2112 note); and


(H) Section 204 of the Agricultural Act of 1956, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1854).


(viii) Conduct Department activities to carry out the provisions of the Export Administration Act of 1979, as amended (50 U.S.C. Chapter 56).


(ix) Exercise the Department's responsibilities in connection with international negotiations of the Grains Trade Convention and in the administration of such Convention.


(x) Plan and carry out programs and activities under the foreign market promotion authority of: The Wheat Research and Promotion Act (7 U.S.C. 1292 note); the Cotton Research and Promotion Act (7 U.S.C. 2101-2118); the Potato Research and Promotion Act (7 U.S.C. 2611-2627); the Egg Research and Consumer Information Act of 1974 (7 U.S.C. 2701-2718); the Beef Research and Information Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 2901-2911); the Wheat and Wheat Foods Research and Nutrition Education Act (7 U.S.C. 3401-3417); the Floral Research and Consumer Information Act of 1981 (7 U.S.C. 4301-4319); subtitle B of title I of the Dairy and Tobacco Adjustment Act of 1983 (7 U.S.C. 4501-4514); the Honey Research, Promotion, and Consumer Information Act of 1984, as amended (7 U.S.C. 4601-4613); the Pork Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Act of 1985 (7 U.S.C. 4801-4819); the Watermelon Research and Promotion Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 4901-4916); the Pecan Promotion and Research Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6001-6013); the Mushroom Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6101-6112); the Lime Research, Promotion, and Consumer Information Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6201-6212); the Soybean Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6301-6311); the Fluid Milk Promotion Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6401-6417); the Fresh Cut Flowers and Fresh Cut Greens Promotion and Consumer Information Act (7 U.S.C. 6801-6814); the Sheep Promotion, Research, and Information Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7101-7111); the Commodity Promotion, Research, and Information Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 7411-7425); the Canola and Rapeseed Research, Promotion, and Consumer Information Act (7 U.S.C. 7441-7452); the National Kiwifruit Research, Promotion, and Consumer Information Act (7 U.S.C. 7461-7473); and, the Popcorn Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Act (7 U.S.C. 7481-7491). This authority includes determining the programs and activities to be undertaken and assuring that they are coordinated with the overall departmental programs to develop foreign markets for U.S. agricultural products.


(xi) Formulate policies and administer barter programs under which agricultural commodities are exported.


(xii) Perform functions of the Department in connection with the development and implementation of agreements to finance the sale and exportation of agricultural commodities under the Food for Peace Act (7 U.S.C. 1691, 1701 *et seq.*).


(xiii) [Reserved]


(xiv) Coordinate within the Department activities arising under the Food for Peace Act (except as delegated to the Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics in § 2.21(a)(8)), and represent the Department in its relationships in such matters with the Department of State, any interagency committee on the Food for Peace Act, and other departments, agencies and committees of the Government.


(xv)-(xvi) [Reserved]


(xvii) Carry out activities relating to the sale, reduction, or cancellation of debt, as authorized by title VI of the Agricultural Trade and Development Act of 1954, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1738 *et seq.*).


(xviii) [Reserved]


(xix) Allocate the agricultural commodities acquired under price support programs that have been determined by the Under Secretary for Farm Production and Conservation or designee to be available for export among the various export programs.


(xx) Conduct economic analyses pertaining to the foreign sugar situation.


(xxi) Exercise the Department's functions with respect to the International Sugar Agreement or any such future agreements.


(xxii) Exercise the Department's responsibilities with respect to tariff-rate quotes for dairy products under chapter 4 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (19 U.S.C. 1202).


(xxiii) Serve as a focal point for handling quality or weight discrepancy inquiries from foreign buyers of U.S. agricultural commodities to insure that they are investigated and receive a timely response and that reports thereof are made to appropriate parties and government officials in order that corrective action may be taken.


(xxiv) Establish and administer regulations relating to foreign travel by employees of the Department. Regulations will include, but not be limited to, obtaining and controlling passports, obtaining visas, coordinating Department of State medical clearances and imposing requirements for itineraries and contacting the Foreign Agricultural Affairs Officers upon arrival in the Officers' country(ies) of responsibility.


(xxv) Formulate policies and administer programs and activities authorized by the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978, as amended (7 U.S.C. 5601 *et seq.*).


(xxvi) Administer the Foreign Service personnel system for the Department in accordance with 22 U.S.C. 3922, except as otherwise delegated to the Under Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs in § 2.22(a)(2)(i), but including authority to approve joint regulations issued by the Department of State and authority to represent the Department of Agriculture in all interagency consultations and negotiations with the other foreign affairs agencies with respect to joint regulations.


(xxvii) Establish and maintain U.S. Agricultural Trade Offices, to develop, maintain and expand international markets for U.S. agricultural commodities in accordance with title IV of Public Law No. 95-501 (7 U.S.C. 1765a-g).


(xxviii) Administer the programs under section 416(b) of the Agricultural Act of 1949, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1431(b)), relating to the foreign donation of CCC stocks of agricultural commodities, except as otherwise delegated in § 2.42(a)(43).


(xxix) Support remote sensing activities of the Department and research with satellite imagery including:


(A) Providing liaison with U.S. space programs;


(B) Providing administrative management of the USDA Remote Sensing Archive and the transfer of satellite imagery to all USDA agencies;


(C) Coordinating all agency satellite imagery data needs; and


(D) Arranging for acquisition, and preparation of imagery for use to the extent of existing capabilities.


(xxx) Promote cooperation and coordination between 1862, 1890, 1994, and NLGCA Institutions, HSACUs, and cooperating forestry schools and international partner institutions in developing countries by exercising the Secretary's authority in 7 U.S.C. 3292, including coordinating with the Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics to place interns from covered institutions in, or in service to benefit, developing countries.


(xxxi) Administer programs under the Food for Progress Act of 1985 (7 U.S.C. 1736o), except as otherwise delegated in § 2.42(a)(43).


(xxxii) Serve as Department adviser on policies, organizational arrangements, budgets, and actions to accomplish international scientific and technical cooperation in food and agriculture.


(xxxiii) Administer and direct the Department's programs in international development, technical assistance, and training carried out under the Foreign Assistance Act, as amended, as requested under such act (22 U.S.C. 2151 *et seq.*).


(xxxiv) Administer and coordinate assigned Departmental programs in international research and scientific and technical cooperation with other governmental agencies, land grant universities, international organizations, international agricultural research centers, and other organizations, institutions, or individuals (7 U.S.C. 1624, 3291).


(xxxv) Direct and coordinate the Department's participation in scientific and technical matters and exchange agreements between the United States and other countries.


(xxxvi) Direct and coordinate the Department's work with international organizations and interagency committees concerned with food and agricultural development programs (7 U.S.C. 2201-2202).


(xxxvii) Coordinate policy formulation for USDA international science and technology programs concerning international agricultural research centers, international organizations, and international agricultural research and extension activities (7 U.S.C. 3291).


(xxxviii) Disseminate, upon request, information on subjects connected with agriculture which has been acquired by USDA agencies that may be useful to the U.S. private sector in expanding foreign markets and investment opportunities through the operation of a Department information center, pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 2201.


(xxxix) Enter into contracts, grants, cooperative agreements, and cost reimbursable agreements relating to agricultural research, extension, or teaching activities (7 U.S.C. 3318, 3319a).


(xl) Determine amounts reimbursable for indirect costs under international agricultural programs and agreements (7 U.S.C. 3319).


(xli) Administer the Cochran Fellowship Program (7 U.S.C. 3293).


(xlii) Determine quantity trigger levels and impose additional duties under the special safeguard measures in accordance with U.S. note 2 to subchapter IV of chapter 99 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (19 U.S.C. 1202).


(xliii) Implement provisions of the Trade Act of 1974 regarding adjustment assistance for farmers (19 U.S.C. 2401-2401g).


(xliv) Implement section 3107 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 1736o-1).


(xlv) Administer the International Agricultural Education Fellowship Program (7 U.S.C. 3295).


(xlvi) Implement section 3206 of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 1726c) regarding local and regional food aid procurement projects.


(xlvii) Administer the Borlaug International Agricultural Science and Technology Fellowship Program (7 U.S.C. 3319j).


(xlviii) Compile and make available information relating to the improvement of international food security, and provide technical assistance for the improvement of international food security to Federal, State, or local agencies; agencies or instrumentalities of the government of foreign country; domestic or international organizations; or intergovernmental organizations (7 U.S.C. 1736dd).


(xlix) Administer the following provisions of the Agricultural Act of 2014, Public Law 113-79:


(A) Section 12314 relating to the Pima Agriculture Cotton Trust Fund (7 U.S.C. 2101 note), in coordination with the Under Secretary for Farm Production and Conservation.


(B) Section 12315 relating to the Agriculture Wool Apparel Manufacturers Trust Fund (7 U.S.C. 7101 note), in coordination with the Under Secretary for Farm Production and Conservation.


(l) In consultation with the Tribal Advisory Committee and the Director of the Office of Tribal Relations, and in coordination with the Secretaries of Commerce, State, Interior, and the heads of any other relevant Federal agencies, implement section 3312 of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018 (7 U.S.C. 5608) to support greater inclusion of Tribal agricultural food products in Federal trade activities.


(2) [Reserved]


(3) Administer responsibilities and functions assigned under the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. App. 2061 *et seq.*), and title VI of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5195 *et seq.*), concerning foreign agricultural intelligence and other foreign agricultural matters.


(4) Carry out prize competition authorities in section 24 of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3719) related to functions otherwise delegated to the Under Secretary for Trade and Foreign Agricultural Affairs, except for authorities delegated to the Chief Financial Officer in § 2.28(a)(29) and authorities reserved to the Secretary in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.


(5) *Related to the U.S. Codex Office.* (i) Inform the public of the sanitary and phytosanitary standard-setting activities of the Codex Alimentarius Commission (19 U.S.C. 2578; Pres. Proc. 6780).


(ii) Enter into agreements with organizations, institutions or individuals throughout the world to conduct activities related to the sanitary and phytosanitary standard-setting activities of the Codex Alimentarius Commission, including international outreach and education, in order to promote and support the development of a viable and sustainable global agricultural system; antihunger and improved international nutrition efforts; and increased quantity, quality, and availability of food (7 U.S.C. 3291).


(iii) Coordinate with institutions and other persons throughout the world performing agricultural and related research, extension, and teaching activities by exchanging research materials and results with such institutions or persons or by conducting with such institutions or persons joint or coordinated research, extension, or teaching activities that are related to the sanitary and phytosanitary standard-setting activities of the Codex Alimentarius Commission and that address problems of significance to food and agriculture in the United States (7 U.S.C. 3291).


(iv) Work with transitional and more advanced countries in food, agricultural, and related research, development, teaching, and extension activities related to the sanitary and phytosanitary standard-setting activities of the Codex Alimentarius Commission (7 U.S.C. 3291).


(v) Enter into contracts, grants, cooperative agreements, and cost reimbursable agreements to carry out the Department's agricultural research, extension, or teaching activities related to the sanitary and phytosanitary standard-setting activities of the Codex Alimentarius Commission (7 U.S.C. 3318, 3319a).


(vi) Determine amounts reimbursable for indirect costs under international agricultural programs and agreements (7 U.S.C. 3319).


(vii) Coordinate policy formulation for USDA international science and technology programs concerning the sanitary and phytosanitary standard-setting activities of the Codex Alimentarius Commission (7 U.S.C. 3291).


(b) The following authorities are reserved to the Secretary of Agriculture:


(1) *Related to foreign agriculture.* (i) Approving export controls with respect to any agricultural commodity, including fats and oils or animal hides or skins as provided for in the Export Administration Act of 1969, as amended (50 U.S.C. App. 2401 *et seq.*).


(ii) Advising the President that imports are having the effect on programs or operations of this Department required as a prerequisite for the imposition of import controls under section 22 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1933, as amended (7 U.S.C. 624a), recommending that the President cause an investigation to be made by the Tariff Commission of the facts so that a determination can be made whether import restrictions should be imposed under that Act, and determining under section 204(e) of the Andean Trade Preference Act (19 U.S.C. 3203(e)) that there exists a serious injury, or threat thereof and recommending to the President whether or not to take action.


(iii) Determining the agricultural commodities and the quantities thereof available for disposition under the Food for Peace Act (7 U.S.C. 1731).


(2) Approval of prize competitions that may result in the award of more than $1,000,000 in cash prizes under section 24(m)(4)(B) of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3719(m)(4)(B)).



---

[N] [83 FR 22181, May 14, 2018, as amended at 85 FR 65512, Oct, 15, 2020. Redesignated and amended at 87 FR 44266, July 26, 2022]








