# § 80.150   Product transfer documents.

(a) *General requirements*—(1) *PTD contents.* On each occasion when any person transfers title of any biogas or imported RNG without assigned RINs, the transferor must provide the transferee PTDs that include all the following information:


(i) The name, EPA-issued company and facility IDs, and address of the transferor.


(ii) The name, EPA-issued company and facility IDs, and address of the transferee.


(iii) The volume (in Btu HHV for biogas or Btu LHV for RNG) of the product being transferred by D code and verification status.


(iv) The location of the product at the time of the transfer.


(v) The date of the transfer.


(vi) Period of production.


(2) *Other PTD requirements.* A party must also include any applicable PTD information required under § 80.1453 or 40 CFR part 1090, subpart L.


(b) *Additional PTD requirements for transfers of biogas.* In addition to the information required in paragraph (a) of this section, on each occasion when any person transfers title of biogas, the transferor must provide the transferee PTDs that include all the following information:


(1) An accurate and clear statement of the applicable designation of the biogas.


(2) If the biogas is designated as a biointermediate, any applicable requirement specified in § 80.1453(f).


(3) One of the following statements, as applicable:


(i) For biogas designated for use to produce renewable CNG/LNG, “This volume of biogas is designated and intended for use to produce renewable CNG/LNG.”


(ii) For biogas designated for use to produce RNG, “This volume of biogas is designated and intended for use to produce renewable natural gas.”


(iii) For biogas designated for use as a biointermediate, the language found at § 80.1453(f)(1)(vi).


(iv) For biogas designated for use as process heat or energy under § 80.1426(f)(12) or (13), “This volume of biogas is designated and intended for use as process heat or energy.”


(c) *PTD requirements for custodial transfers of RNG.* On each occasion when custody of RNG is transferred prior to injection into a pipeline interconnect (*e.g.,* via truck), the transferor must provide the transferee PTDs that include all the following information:


(1) The applicable information listed in paragraph (a) of this section.


(2) The following statement, “This volume of RNG is designated and intended for transportation use and may not be used for any other purpose.”


(d) *PTD requirements for imported RIN-less RNG.* On each occasion when title of RIN-less RNG is transferred and ultimately imported into the covered location, the transferor must provide the transferee PTDs that include all the following information:


(1) The applicable information listed in paragraph (a) of this section.


(2) The following statement, “This volume of RNG is designated and intended for transportation use in the contiguous United States and may not be used for any other purpose.”


(3) The name, EPA-issued company and facility IDs, and address of the contracted RNG importer under § 80.160(e).


(4) The name, EPA-issued company and facility IDs, and address of the transferee.






