# § 1493.260   Application for payment guarantee.

(a) *Letter of interest.* Prior to submitting an initial application for a payment guarantee in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, the seller may, solely at the seller's option, submit a letter of interest to CCC describing a transaction for which FGP coverage may be sought. The letter of interest must contain all of the information specified on the USDA Web site and must be accompanied by a completed preliminary environmental and social screening document. A letter of interest fee, which will be specified on the USDA Web site, must accompany the letter of interest. CCC will review the letter of interest and provide preliminary feedback to the seller on whether the transaction may be eligible for coverage under the FGP. However, CCC's determination whether to issue a payment guarantee will be based on the seller's applications submitted pursuant to paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section.


(b) *Initial application for payment guarantee.* A firm sales contract must exist before a seller may submit an initial application for a payment guarantee. An initial application for a payment guarantee must be submitted in writing to CCC in the manner specified on the USDA Web site, and be accompanied by the application fee in accordance with § 1493.300(b). Each initial application for a payment guarantee must also include a completed Preliminary Environmental and Social Screening Document. If the seller previously submitted the screening document with a letter of interest, the seller is required to re-submit it with the initial application only if revisions are needed to the screening document. An initial application must identify the name and address of the seller and include the following information:


(1) Destination country.


(2) The name and address of the buyer. If the buyer is not physically located in the destination country, it must have a buyer's representative in the destination country taking receipt of the goods and services covered by the payment guarantee. If applicable, provide the name and address of the buyer's representative.


(3) The name and address of the party on whose request the letter of credit is issued, if other than the buyer.


(4) The name and address of the end-user of the goods or services, if other than the buyer.


(5) The seller's sales number pertinent to the application and a copy of the firm sales contract.


(6) A description (including location, *i.e.,* address, city, port, and/or GPS coordinates, if available) of the agriculture-related facility that will use the goods and/or services to be covered by the payment guarantee and an explanation of how the goods and/or services will be used to improve handling, marketing, processing, storage, or distribution of U.S. agricultural commodities. If the payment guarantee covers goods not intended for a specific facility, describe where the goods will be delivered in the destination country.


(7) List of all agricultural commodities or products (inputs) to be handled, marketed, processed, stored, or distributed by the proposed transaction after completion, and an explanation of why and how the facility or goods and/or services will specifically benefit exporters of U.S. agricultural commodities.


(8) Total value of the firm sales contract.


(9) A full description of each good to be covered by the payment guarantee. The goods specified in the seller's application for the payment guarantee must correspond with the description of the goods specified in the firm sales contract and the foreign financial institution letter of credit. The description must include each of the following:


(i) Brand name and model number;


(ii) Applicable 10-digit Harmonized System classification code;


(iii) Description of the good;


(iv) Country where the good was manufactured and from which the good will be exported;


(v) For U.S. goods, the value of imported components used in the U.S. good's manufacture. If requesting guarantee coverage of only the U.S. components in U.S. goods, provide the value of U.S. components;


(vi) For goods that are local costs, the name of the local supplier;


(vii) Quantity;


(viii) Value of the good; and


(ix) Incoterms (if the sale of the goods is based on Incoterms delivery).


(10) A full description of each U.S. service to be covered by the payment guarantee. The U.S. services specified in the seller's application for the payment guarantee must correspond with the description of the U.S. services specified in the firm sales contract and the foreign financial institution letter of credit. The description must include each of the following:


(i) Description of the U.S. service;


(ii) Supplier of the U.S. service;


(iii) Cost of the U.S. service; and


(iv) NAICS classification number.


(11) A description and date of performance (or timeframe of performance if the exact date is unknown) of each contractual event, as specified in the firm sales contract.


(12) Indication of whether a coverage waiver is requested in accordance with § 1493.290(f). If a coverage waiver is requested, the applicant must indicate the nature of the waiver requested per § 1493.290(f)(1) and provide the justification and explanation required by § 1493.290(f)(2).


(13) Name and location of the foreign financial institution issuing the letter of credit and, upon request by CCC, written evidence that the foreign financial institution has agreed to issue the letter of credit.


(14) The term length of the credit being extended and the intervals between principal payments for each contractual event under the payment guarantee.


(15) If applicable, a description of any arrangements or understandings with other U.S. or foreign government agencies, or with financial institutions or entities, private or public, providing guarantees or financing to the seller or other competing sellers in connection with this sale, whether or not the goods or services are of U.S. origin or would otherwise qualify for a payment guarantee under this subpart. Copies of any documents relating to such arrangements must be provided.


(16) A statement of how this transaction may encourage privatization of the agricultural sector, or benefit private farms or cooperatives, in the destination country. Include in the statement the share of any private sector ownership in the transaction.


(17) An estimate of how many U.S. persons will be or have been hired because of the firm sales contract and/or how many U.S. persons are required to fulfill the firm sales contract.


(18) FGP tracking number assigned to previously submitted letter of interest, if applicable.


(c) *Review of initial application.* (1) An initial application may receive conditional approval from CCC as submitted, be conditionally approved with modifications agreed to by the seller, or be rejected by CCC. CCC's review will include, but not be limited to, the following criteria:


(i) CCC will only consider an initial application in connection with a transaction that CCC determines will benefit primarily exports of U.S. agricultural commodities.


(ii) If, based upon a price review the unit sales price of any good and/or service(s) does not fall within the prevailing commercial market level ranges, as determined by CCC, the initial application will not be approved as submitted.


(iii) CCC will review the preliminary environmental and social screening document submitted by the seller and, if necessary, request additional information from the seller to determine whether the transaction could have potentially significant adverse environmental and/or social impacts. If CCC determines that a transaction may have such significant adverse impacts, the seller must submit an Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) with the final application for the payment guarantee. Alternatively, CCC may reject an initial application for payment guarantee based on the screening document and any additional information provided by the seller.


(2) Once CCC indicates its approval of the initial application to the seller, the seller must submit a final application as specified in paragraph (d) of this section before CCC will make a final determination of whether to issue a payment guarantee.


(d) *Final application for payment guarantee.* Once CCC approves an initial application, CCC must receive the seller's final application for a payment guarantee within the timeframe specified by CCC. This timeframe will be a minimum of 30 calendar days. The final application for payment guarantee must be submitted in writing to CCC in the manner specified on the USDA Web site and be accompanied by the full guarantee fee (less any previous letter of interest or initial application fees paid toward the payment guarantee) and the environmental and social impact assessment, if required by CCC. The final application must identify the name and address of the seller and include the following information:


(1) FGP tracking number assigned by CCC.


(2) Destination country.


(3) The name and address of the buyer.


(4) A description of each good and U.S. service, along with the value of the Good and Cost of the service, for which guarantee coverage is requested, based on CCC's feedback on the seller's initial application. If the seller is seeking guarantee coverage on only the U.S. components used in the assembly of U.S. goods, provide the value of the U.S. Components.


(5) Net contract value.


(6) Amount of the initial payment and evidence that the initial payment has been paid by the buyer to the seller.


(7) Description and value of any discounts and allowances.


(8) Value of approved local costs.


(9) Total FGP transaction value.


(10) Guaranteed value.


(11) Guarantee fee.


(12) The seller's statement, “All certifications set forth in § 1493.270 are hereby being made by the seller in this application” which, when included in the application by the seller, will constitute a certification that it is in compliance with all the requirements set forth in § 1493.270 with respect to both the initial and final applications.


(e) *Public comment.* To provide the public opportunity to review and comment on the potential environmental and social impacts of a transaction, CCC will make available on its Web site a list of pending transactions for which an ESIA is required. Interested parties will have a minimum of 30 business days to request and provide input on an ESIA prior to CCC's final decision. CCC will not disclose any confidential business information associated with a transaction unless such disclosure is authorized by law.


(f) *Reporting.* The seller may be required to submit reports to CCC on a quarterly, biannual, or annual basis to allow CCC to monitor transactions in which there is a potential for negative environmental and/or social impact. Reporting frequency will be based on the extent of the transaction's impact and any mitigation required. CCC and the seller will agree upon any reporting requirements, including the elements of reporting and the frequency, prior to issuance of a payment guarantee.


(g) *Approval of final application.* A final application for a payment guarantee may be approved as submitted, approved with modifications agreed to by the seller, or rejected by CCC. CCC shall have the right to request the seller to furnish any other information and documentation it deems pertinent to the evaluation of the seller's application. In the event that the final application is approved, the Director will cause a payment guarantee to be issued in favor of the seller. Such payment guarantee will become effective at the time specified in § 1493.290(b).




