# ยง 146.68   Transfer for transportation or exportation; estimated production.

(a) *Weekly permit.* The port director may allow the person making entry for merchandise provided for in ยง 146.63(c) to file an application for a weekly permit to enter and release merchandise during a calendar week for exportation, transportation, or transportation and exportation. The application will be made by filing an in-bond application pursuant to part 18 of this chapter. The in-bond application must provide invoice or schedule information like that required in ยง 146.63(c)(1). If actual transfers will exceed the estimate for the week, the person with the right to make entry must file a supplemental in-bond application to cover the additional merchandise to be transferred from the subzone or zone site. No merchandise covered by the weekly permit may be transferred from the zone before approval of the application by the port director.


(b) *Individual entries.* After approval of the application for a weekly permit by the port director, the person making entry will be authorized to file individual in-bond applications for exportation, transportation, or transportation and exportation of the merchandise covered by permit. Upon transfer of the merchandise, the carrier must update the in-bond record via a CBP-approved EDI system to ensure its assumption of liability under the carrier's or cartman's bond. CBP will consider the time of entry to be when the removing carrier updates the in-bond record.


(c) *Statement of merchandise entered.* The person making entry for merchandise under an approved weekly permit must file with the port director, by the close of business on the second business day of the week following the week designated on the permit, a statement of the merchandise entered under that permit. The statement must list each in-bond application by its unique IT number, and must provide a reconciliation of the quantities on the weekly permit with the manifested quantities on the individual in-bond applications submitted to CBP, as well as an explanation of any discrepancy.



---

[N] [CBP Dec. 17-13, 82 FR 45407, Sept. 28, 2017]




