# 25.702-1   Definitions.

As used in this section—


*Appropriate Congressional committees* means—


(1) The Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, The Committee on Foreign Relations, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and


(2) The Committee on Financial Services, the Committee on Foreign Relations, and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives.


*Business operations* means engaging in commerce in any form, including by acquiring, developing, maintaining, owning, selling, possessing, leasing, or operating equipment, facilities, personnel, products, services, personal property, real property, or any other apparatus of business or commerce.


*Marginalized populations of Sudan* means—


(1) Adversely affected groups in regions authorized to receive assistance under section 8(c) of the Darfur Peace and Accountability Act (Pub. L. 109-344) (50 U.S.C. 1701 note); and


(2) Marginalized areas in Northern Sudan described in section 4(9) of such Act.


*Restricted business operations*—


(1) Means, except as provided in paragraph (2) of this definition, business operations in Sudan that include power production activities, mineral extraction activities, oil-related activities, or the production of military equipment, as those terms are defined in the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007 (Pub. L. 110-174).


(2) Does not include business operations that the person (as that term is defined in Section 2 of the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007) conducting the business can demonstrate—


(i) Are conducted under contract directly and exclusively with the regional government of southern Sudan;


(ii) Are conducted pursuant to specific authorization from the Office of Foreign Assets Control in the Department of the Treasury, or are expressly exempted under Federal law from the requirement to be conducted under such authorization;


(iii) Consist of providing goods or services to marginalized populations of Sudan;


(iv) Consist of providing goods or services to an internationally recognized peacekeeping force or humanitarian organization;


(v) Consist of providing goods or services that are used only to promote health or education; or


(vi) Have been voluntarily suspended.



---

[N] [64 FR 72419, Dec. 27, 1999, as amended at 74 FR 40465, Aug. 11, 2009]




