# § 3.702   Dependency and indemnity compensation.

(a) *Right to elect.* A person who is eligible for death compensation and who has entitlement to dependency and indemnity compensation pursuant to the provisions of § 3.5(b)(2) or (3) may receive dependency and indemnity compensation upon the filing of a claim. The claim of such a person for service-connected death benefits shall be considered a claim for dependency and indemnity compensation subject to confirmation by the claimant. The effective date of payment is controlled by the provisions of § 3.400(c)(4). 


(b) *Effect on child's entitlement.* Where a surviving spouse is entitled to death compensation, the amount of which is based in part on the existence of a child who has attained the age of 18 years, and elects to receive dependency and indemnity compensation, the independent award of dependency and indemnity compensation to which the child is entitled will be awarded to or for the child without separate election by or for the child. Should such a surviving spouse not elect to receive dependency and indemnity compensation, the independent dependency and indemnity compensation to which a child who has attained 18 years of age is entitled, may be awarded upon application by or for the child. The effective date of award in these situations will be in accordance with § 3.400(c)(4)(ii). 


(c) *Limitation.* A claim for dependency and indemnity compensation may not be filed or withdrawn after the death of the surviving spouse, child, or parent. 


(d) *Finality of election.*(1) Except as noted in paragraphs (d)(2) and (g) of this section, an election to receive dependency and indemnity compensation is final and the claimant may not thereafter reelect death pension or compensation in that case. An election is final when the payee (or the payee's fiduciary) has negotiated one check for this benefit or when the payee dies after filing an election but prior to negotiation of a check. 


(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (d)(1), effective November 2, 1994, a surviving spouse who is receiving dependency and indemnity compensation may elect to receive death pension instead of such compensation. 


(e) *Surviving spouse becomes entitled.* A surviving spouse who becomes eligible to receive death compensation by reason of liberalizing provisions of any law may receive death compensation or elect dependency and indemnity compensation even though dependency and indemnity compensation has been paid to a child or children of the veteran. 


(f) *Death pension rate.* (1) Effective October 1, 1961, where the monthly rate of dependency and indemnity compensation payable to a surviving spouse who has children is less than the monthly rate of death pension which would be payable to such surviving spouse if the veteran's death had not been service connected, dependency and indemnity compensation shall be paid to such surviving spouse in an amount equal to the pension rate for any month (or part thereof) in which this rate is greater.


(2) Effective June 22, 1966, where the monthly rate of dependency and indemnity compensation payable to a surviving spouse who has children is less than the monthly rate of death pension which would be payable for the children if the veteran's death had not been service connected and the surviving spouse were not entitled to such pension, dependency and indemnity compensation shall be payable to the surviving spouse in an amount equal to the monthly rate of death pension which would be payable to the children for any month (or part thereof) in which this rate is greater.


(g) *Medal of Honor pension.* A surviving spouse who qualifies for dependency and indemnity compensation under 38 U.S.C. 1311 or 1318 may, by notifying the Secretary in writing, elect to receive instead Medal of Honor pension, if entitled to such pension. See also § 3.802(c)(2) and (3).



---

[N] [35 FR 18661, Dec. 9, 1970, as amended at 39 FR 20205, June 7, 1974; 41 FR 17387, Apr. 26, 1976; 44 FR 45943, Aug. 6, 1979; 60 FR 18356, Apr. 11, 1995; 61 FR 20727, May 8, 1996; 62 FR 5529, Feb. 6, 1997; 87 FR 68363, Nov. 15, 2022] 




