# § 1.1367-1   Adjustments to basis of shareholder's stock in an S corporation.

(a) *In general*—(1) *Adjustments under section 1367.* This section provides rules relating to adjustments required by section 1367 to the basis of a shareholder's stock in an S corporation. Paragraph (b) of this section provides rules concerning increases in the basis of a shareholder's stock, and paragraph (c) of this section provides rules concerning decreases in the basis of a shareholder's stock.


(2) *Applicability of other Internal Revenue Code provisions.* In addition to the adjustments required by section 1367 and this section, the basis of stock is determined or adjusted under other applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code.


(b) *Increase in basis of stock*—(1) *In general.* Except as provided in § 1.1367-2(c) (relating to restoration of basis of indebtedness to the shareholder), the basis of a shareholder's stock in an S corporation is increased by the sum of the items described in section 1367(a)(1). The increase in basis described in section 1367(a)(1)(C) for the excess of the deduction for depletion over the basis of the property subject to depletion does not include the depletion deduction attributable to oil or gas property. See section 613(A)(c)(11).


(2) *Amount of increase in basis of individual shares.* The basis of a shareholder's share of stock is increased by an amount equal to the shareholder's pro rata portion of the items described in section 1367(a)(1) that is attributable to that share, determined on a per share, per day basis in accordance with section 1377(a).


(c) *Decrease in basis of stock*—(1) *In general.* The basis of a shareholder's stock in an S corporation is decreased (but not below zero) by the sum of the items described in section 1367(a)(2).


(2) *Noncapital, nondeductible expenses.* For purposes of section 1367(a)(2)(D), expenses of the corporation not deductible in computing its taxable income and not properly chargeable to a capital account (*noncapital, nondeductible expenses*) are only those items for which no loss or deduction is allowable and do not include items the deduction for which is deferred to a later taxable year. Examples of noncapital, nondeductible expenses include (but are not limited to) the following: Illegal bribes, kickbacks, and other payments not deductible under section 162(c); fines and penalties not deductible under section 162(f); expenses and interest relating to tax-exempt income under section 265; losses for which the deduction is disallowed under section 267(a)(1); the portion of meals and entertainment expenses disallowed under section 274; and the two-thirds portion of treble damages paid for violating antitrust laws not deductible under section 162. 

For basis adjustments necessary to coordinate sections 1367 and 362(e)(2), see § 1.362-4(e)(2).


(3) *Amount of decrease in basis of individual shares.* The basis of a shareholder's share of stock is decreased by an amount equal to the shareholder's pro rata portion of the passthrough items and distributions described in section 1367(a)(2) attributable to that share, determined on a per share, per day basis in accordance with section 1377(a). If the amount attributable to a share exceeds its basis, the excess is applied to reduce (but not below zero) the remaining bases of all other shares of stock in the corporation owned by the shareholder in proportion to the remaining basis of each of those shares.


(d) *Time at which adjustments to basis of stock are effective*—(1) *In general.* The adjustments described in section 1367(a) to the basis of a shareholder's stock are determined as of the close of the corporation's taxable year, and the adjustments generally are effective as of that date. However, if a shareholder disposes of stock during the corporation's taxable year, the adjustments with respect to that stock are effective immediately prior to the disposition.


(2) *Adjustment for nontaxable item.* An adjustment for a nontaxable item is determined for the taxable year in which the item would have been includible or deductible under the corporation's method of accounting for Federal income tax purposes if the item had been subject to Federal income taxation.


(3) *Effect of election under section 1377(a)(2) or § 1.1368-1(g)(2).* If an election under section 1377(a)(2) (to terminate the year in the case of the termination of a shareholder's interest) or under § 1.1368-1(g)(2) (to terminate the year in the case of a qualifying disposition) is made with respect to the taxable year of a corporation, this paragraph (d) applies as if the taxable year consisted of separate taxable years, the first of which ends at the close of the day on which either the shareholder's interest is terminated or a qualifying disposition occurs, whichever the case may be.


(e) *Ordering rules for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1997.* For any taxable year of a corporation beginning before January 1, 1997, except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, the adjustments required by section 1367(a) are made in the following order—


(1) Any increase in basis attributable to the income items described in section 1367(a)(1) (A) and (B) and the excess of the deductions for depletion described in section 1367(a)(1)(C);


(2) Any decrease in basis attributable to noncapital, nondeductible expenses described in section 1367(a)(2)(D) and the oil and gas depletion deduction described in section 1367(a)(2)(E);


(3) Any decrease in basis attributable to items of loss or deduction described in section 1367(a)(2) (B) and (C); and


(4) Any decrease in basis attributable to a distribution by the corporation described in section 1367(a)(2)(A).


(f) *Ordering rules for taxable years beginning on or after August 18, 1998.* For any taxable year of a corporation beginning on or after August 18, 1998, except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, the adjustments required by section 1367(a) are made in the following order—


(1) Any increase in basis attributable to the income items described in section 1367(a)(1)(A) and (B), and the excess of the deductions for depletion described in section 1367(a)(1)(C);


(2) Any decrease in basis attributable to a distribution by the corporation described in section 1367(a)(2)(A);


(3) Any decrease in basis attributable to noncapital, nondeductible expenses described in section 1367(a)(2)(D), and the oil and gas depletion deduction described in section 1367(a)(2)(E); and


(4) Any decrease in basis attributable to items of loss or deduction described in section 1367(a)(2)(B) and (C).


(g) *Elective ordering rule.* A shareholder may elect to decrease basis under paragraph (e)(3) or (f)(4) of this section, whichever applies, prior to decreasing basis under paragraph (e)(2) or (f)(3) of this section, whichever applies. If a shareholder makes this election, any amount described in paragraph (e)(2) or (f)(3) of this section, whichever applies, that is in excess of the shareholder's basis in stock and indebtedness is treated, solely for purposes of this section, as an amount described in paragraph (e)(2) or (f)(3) of this section, whichever applies, in the succeeding taxable year. A shareholder makes the election under this paragraph by attaching a statement to the shareholder's timely filed original or amended return that states that the shareholder agrees to the carryover rule of the preceding sentence. Once a shareholder makes an election under this paragraph with respect to an S corporation, the shareholder must continue to use the rules of this paragraph for that S corporation in future taxable years unless the shareholder receives the permission of the Commissioner.


(h) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the principles of § 1.1367-1. In each example, the corporation is a calendar year S corporation:


(i) [Reserved]


(j) *Adjustments for items of income in respect of a decedent.* The basis determined under section 1014 of any stock in an S corporation is reduced by the portion of the value of the stock that is attributable to items constituting income in respect of a decedent. For the determination of items realized by an S corporation constituting income in respect of a decedent, see sections 1367(b)(4)(A) and 691 and applicable regulations thereunder. For the determination of the allowance of a deduction for the amount of estate tax attributable to income in respect of a decedent, see section 691(c) and applicable regulations thereunder.



---

[N] [T.D. 8508, 59 FR 15, Jan. 3, 1994, as amended by T.D. 8852, 64 FR 71648, Dec. 22, 1999; 65 FR 12471, Mar. 9, 2000; 65 FR 16319, Mar. 28, 2000; T.D. 9633, 78 FR 54168, Sept. 3, 2013; T.D. 9682, 79 FR 42678, July 23, 2014; T.D. 9759, 81 FR 17083, Mar. 28, 2016]




