# § 80.120   Parties that use biogas as a biointermediate or RNG as a feedstock or as process heat or energy.

(a) *General requirements.* (1) Any renewable fuel producer that uses biogas as a biointermediate or RNG as a feedstock or as process heat or energy under § 80.1426(f)(12) or (13) must comply with the requirements of this section.


(2) The renewable fuel producer must also comply with all other applicable requirements of this part and 40 CFR part 1090.


(3) If the renewable fuel producer meets the definition of more than one type of regulated party under this part or 40 CFR 1090, the renewable fuel producer must comply with the requirements applicable to each of those types of regulated parties.


(4) The renewable fuel producer must comply with all applicable requirements of this part, regardless of whether they are identified in this section.


(5) The transfer and batch segregation limits specified in § 80.1476(g) do not apply.


(b) *Registration.* The renewable fuel producer must register with EPA under §§ 80.135, 80.1450, and 40 CFR part 1090, subpart I, as applicable.


(c) *Reporting.* The renewable fuel producer must submit reports to EPA under §§ 80.140, 80.1451, and 80.1452, as applicable.


(d) *Recordkeeping.* The renewable fuel producer must create and maintain records under §§ 80.145 and 80.1454.


(e) *PTDs.* On each occasion when the renewable fuel producer transfers title of biogas-derived renewable fuel and RINs to another party, the transferor must provide to the transferee PTDs under §§ 80.150 and 80.1453.


(f) *Measurement.* (1) All measurements must be done in accordance with § 80.155.


(2) A renewable fuel producer must measure the volume of natural gas, in Btu LHV, withdrawn from the natural gas commercial pipeline system.


(g) *Attest engagements.* The renewable fuel producer must submit annual attest engagement reports to EPA under §§ 80.165 and 80.1464 using procedures specified in 40 CFR 1090.1800 and 1090.1805.


(h) *QAP.* Prior to the generation of a Q-RIN for biogas-derived renewable fuel produced from biogas used as a biointermediate or RNG used as a feedstock, the renewable fuel producer must meet all applicable requirements specified in § 80.170.






