# § 721.11197   Flue dust, glass-manufg. desulfurization. Definition: The dust produced from the flue gas exhaust cleaning of a glass manufacturing process using carbonate containing substances. It consists primarily of Na2S04, Na2CO3, and Na4(SO4)(CO3).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as flue dust, glass-manufg. desulfurization. Definition: The dust produced from the flue gas exhaust cleaning of a glass manufacturing process using carbonate containing substances. It consists primarily of Na2S04, Na2CO3, and Na4(SO4)(CO3) (PMN P-16-421, CAS No. 1916486-36-6) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to quantities of the substance after they have been completely incorporated into a glass product.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (3), (4), and (5), (a)(6)(v) and (vi) (particulate), and (c). When determining which persons are reasonable likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1) and (4), engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposures, where feasible. For purposes of § 721.63(a)(5), respirators must provide a National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health assigned protection factor of at least 50 or when the PMN substance is in a mixture at a concentration below 1.0 percent by weight, an APF of 10.


(ii) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (d), (f), (g)(1)(iii), (iv), (vi), and (ix) (cardiovascular effects), (a)(2)(i) through (v), and (a)(5). Alternative hazard and warning statements that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(h). It is a significant new use to modify the processes or uses described in the premanufacture notice such that occupational exposure is increased. It is a significant new use to manufacture the substance with an elemental composition different from that described in the PMN.


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (d) and (f) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.



---

[N] [85 FR 1109, Jan. 9, 2020]




