# § 13.61   Publicity of information.

(a) *Pending and denied applications*—(1) *General.* Pending and denied applications for certificates of label approval, certificates of exemption from label approval, or distinctive liquor bottle approvals are treated as proprietary information, unless the applicant or certificate holder provides written authorization to release such information.


(2) *Labels that make organic claims.* TTB will disclose applications for approval of labels that make organic claims to the appropriate office of the United States Department of Agriculture to assure such labels comply with National Organic Program rules. 


(b) *Approved applications.* The appropriate TTB officer shall cause to be maintained in the TTB public reading room for public inspection, a copy of each approved application for certificate of label approval, certificate of exemption from label approval, or distinctive liquor bottle approval. These documents may be viewed during business hours at 1310 G Street NW., Washington, DC, or by viewing the Public COLA Registry on the TTB Web site at (*https://www.ttb.gov*).


(c) *Revoked certificates.* If an approved certificate is subsequently revoked, the record of the approved application will remain on file for public inspection, but the index will be annotated to show it was revoked.


(d) *Further disclosure of information on denied or revoked certificates.* If an applicant whose application is pending or has been denied, or a holder of a revoked certificate of label approval, certificate of exemption from label approval, or distinctive liquor bottle approval, issues public statements concerning TTB action in connection with such application or certificate, then TTB may issue a statement to clarify its position or correct any misstatements of fact, including a disclosure of information contained on the application or certificate of label approval, certificate of exemption from label approval, or distinctive liquor bottle approval.



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-406, 64 FR 2129, Jan. 13, 1999, as amended by T.D. ATF-483, 67 FR 62859, Oct. 8, 2002; T.D. TTB-196, 89 FR 87937, Nov. 6, 2024]




