# § 100.16   Cost estimate submission.

(a) The carrier shall provide sufficient cost data at the time of proposal submission to allow adequate analysis and evaluation of the estimated costs. The FBI reserves the right to request additional cost data from carriers in order to ensure compliance with this part.


(b) The requirement for submission of cost data is met if, as determined by the FBI, all cost data reasonably available to the carrier are either submitted or identified in writing by the date of agreement on the costs.


(c) If cost data and information to explain the estimating process are required by the FBI and the carrier refuses to provide necessary data, or the FBI determines that the data provided are so deficient as to preclude adequate analysis and evaluation, the FBI will attempt to obtain the data and/or elicit corrective action.


(d) Instructions for submission of the cost data for the estimate are as follows:


(1) The carrier shall submit to the FBI estimated costs by line item with supporting information.


(2) A cost element breakdown as described in § 100.16(h) shall be attached for each proposed line item.


(3) Supporting breakdowns shall be furnished for each cost element, consistent with the carrier's cost accounting system.


(4) When more than one line item is proposed, summary total amounts covering all line items shall be furnished for each cost element.


(5) Depending on the carrier's accounting system, the carrier shall provide breakdowns for the following categories of cost elements, as applicable:


(i) *Materials.* Provide a consolidated cost summary of individual material quantities included in the various tasks, orders, or agreement line items being proposed and the basis upon which they were developed (vendor quotes, invoice prices, etc.). Include raw materials, parts, software, components, and assemblies. For all items proposed, identify the item, source, quantity, and cost.


(ii) *Direct labor.* Provide a time-phased (e.g., monthly, quarterly) breakdown of labor hours, rates, and costs by appropriate category, and furnish the methodologies used in developing estimates.


(iii) *Allocable direct costs.* Indicate how allocable costs are computed and applied, including cost breakdowns that provide a basis for evaluating the reasonableness of proposed rates.


(iv) *Subcontracting costs.* For any subcontractor costs submitted for reimbursement, the carrier is responsible for ensuring that documentation requirements set forth herein are passed on to any and all subcontractors utilized in the carrier's efforts to meet CALEA requirements.


(v) *Other costs.* List all other costs not otherwise included in the categories described above (e.g., special tooling, travel, computer and consultant services) and provide bases for costs.


(e) As part of the specific information required, the carrier shall submit with its cost estimate and clearly identify as such, costs that are verifiable and factual. In addition, the carrier shall submit information reasonably required to explain its estimating process, including:


(1) The judgmental factors applied, such as trends or budgetary data, and the mathematical or other methods used in the estimate, including those used in projecting from known data; and


(2) The nature and amount of any contingencies included in the proposed estimate.


(f) There is a clear distinction between submitting cost data and merely making available books, records, and other documents without identification. The requirement for submission of cost data is met when all accurate cost data reasonably available to the carrier have been submitted, either actually or by specific identification, to the FBI.


(g) In submitting its estimate, the carrier must include an index, appropriately referenced, of all the cost data and information accompanying or identified in the estimate. In addition, any future additions and/or revisions, up to the date of agreement on the costs, must be annotated in a supplemental index.


(h) Headings for submission are as follows:


(1) Total Project Cost: Summary.


(i) Cost Elements (Enter appropriate cost elements.)


(ii) Proposed Cost Estimate—Total Cost (Enter those necessary and reasonable costs that in the carrier's judgment will properly be incurred in efficient completion of CALEA requirements. When any of the costs in this have already been incurred (e.g., under a letter contract), describe them on an attached supporting schedule.)


(iii) Proposed Cost Estimate—Unit Cost (Enter the unit costs for each cost element.)


(iv) Supporting Material (Identify the attachment in which the information supporting the specific cost element may be found.)


(2) Total Project Costs: Detail (at Switch Level or Project Level, as appropriate).


(i) Cost Elements (Enter appropriate cost elements.)


(ii) Proposed Cost Estimate—Total Cost (Enter those necessary and reasonable costs that in the carrier's judgment will properly be incurred in efficient completion of CALEA requirements. When any of the costs in this have already been incurred (e.g., under a letter contract), describe them on an attached supporting schedule.)


(iii) Proposed Cost Estimate—Unit Cost (Enter the unit costs for each cost element.)


(iv) Supporting Material (Identify the attachment in which the information supporting the specific cost element may be found.)




