# § 531.216   Setting pay when an employee moves from a Department of Defense or Coast Guard nonappropriated fund instrumentality.

(a) *General.* This section governs the setting of pay for an employee who moves to a GS position in the Department of Defense or the Coast Guard from a position in a nonappropriated fund instrumentality (NAFI) (as described in 5 U.S.C. 2105(c)) of the Department of Defense or the Coast Guard, respectively, without a break in service of more than 3 days. If an employee moves from a NAFI position to a GS position with a break of more than 3 days or moves from a NAFI position in the Department of Defense or the Coast Guard to a GS position outside of the Department of Defense or the Coast Guard, respectively, the employee has no special conversion rights and this section does not apply.


(b) *NAFI highest previous rate.* For the purpose of this section, the term “NAFI highest previous rate” means the highest rate of basic pay received by an employee during service in a NAFI position, as described in 5 U.S.C. 2105(c).


(c) *Voluntary move.* (1) For a Department of Defense or Coast Guard employee who moves voluntarily, without a break in service of more than 3 days, from a NAFI position in the Department of Defense or the Coast Guard to a GS position in the Department of Defense or the Coast Guard, respectively, the agency may set the employee's initial payable rate of basic pay at the lowest step rate in the highest applicable rate range currently in effect for the employee's GS position of record and official worksite which equals or exceeds the employee's NAFI highest previous rate of pay, or any lower step rate, except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) or (3) of this section. The employee's initial payable rate of basic pay may not exceed the maximum step rate (step 10).


(2) If the highest applicable rate range would be different if the official worksite for the employee's position of record were located at the place where the employee was stationed while earning the NAFI highest previous rate, the agency must determine the employee's maximum payable rate of basic pay as follows:


(i) Compare the NAFI highest previous rate to the highest applicable rate range currently in effect in the location where the employee was stationed while earning that rate. The highest applicable rate range is determined based on the pay schedules that would be applicable to the employee's current GS position of record if the employee were stationed in that location. Identify the lowest step rate in the highest applicable rate range that was equal to or exceeded the NAFI highest previous rate. If the NAFI highest previous rate is less than the range minimum, identify the minimum step rate (step 1). If the NAFI highest previous rate exceeds the range maximum, identify the maximum step rate (step 10).


(ii) Identify the step rate in the highest applicable rate range for the employee's current official worksite and position of record that corresponds to the step rate derived under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section. That corresponding rate is the maximum payable rate at which the agency may set the employee's pay under this section, except as provided by paragraph (c)(3) of this section. The agency may set the employee's rate of basic pay at any step rate that does not exceed that maximum payable rate.


(3) An agency may choose to apply the maximum payable rate rule in § 531.221 based on a non-NAFI rate of basic pay if that rule provides a higher rate than provided by paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section.


(d) *Involuntary move.* (1) For a Department of Defense or Coast Guard employee who is moved involuntarily (as defined in paragraph (d)(3) of this section), without a break in service of more than 3 days, from a NAFI position in the Department of Defense or the Coast Guard to a GS position with substantially the same duties in the Department of Defense or the Coast Guard, respectively, the employee is entitled to an initial payable rate of basic pay at the lowest step rate of the grade that is equal to or greater than the employee's rate of basic pay in the NAFI position immediately before the move. If the employee's former NAFI rate exceeds the range maximum, identify the maximum step rate (step 10).


(2) For an employee covered by paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the agency may set the initial payable rate of basic pay at any of the following rates, unless the employee is entitled to receive a higher rate of basic pay under paragraph (d)(1) of this section:


(i) The lowest step rate within the highest applicable rate range for the employee's GS position of record and official worksite that equals or exceeds the employee's NAFI highest previous rate, or any lower step rate (consistent with the method prescribed in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section); 


(ii) A rate determined under the maximum payable rate rule in § 531.221 (using non-NAFI rates of basic pay); or


(iii) A rate determined under the authority to grant pay retention in 5 CFR 536.302(a).


(3) For the purpose of this paragraph (d), “moved involuntarily” means the movement of the incumbent of an NAFI position in the Department of Defense or the Coast Guard with the position when it is moved to the civil service employment system of the Department of Defense or the Coast Guard, respectively.



---

[N] [70 FR 31291, May 31, 2005, as amended at 74 FR 23938, May 22, 2009]




