# ยง 939.773   Requirements for permits and permit processing.

(a) Part 773 of this chapter, *Requirements for Permits and Permit Processing,* shall apply to any person who applies for a permit for surface coal mining and reclamation operations.


(b) In addition to the requirements of part 773, the following permit application review procedures shall apply:


(1) Any person applying for a permit shall submit five copies of the application to the Office.


(2) The Office shall review an application for administrative completeness and acceptability for further review and shall notify the applicant in writing of the findings. The Office may:


(i) Reject a flagrantly deficient application, notifying the application of the findings;


(ii) Request additional information required for completeness stating specifically what information must be supplied and negotiate the date by which the information must be submitted; or


(iii) Judge the application administratively complete and acceptable for further review.


(3) Should the applicant not submit the information as required by ยง 939.773(b)(2)(ii) by the specified date, the Office may reject the application. When the applicant submits the required information by the specified date, the Office shall review it and advise the applicant concerning its acceptability.


(4) When the application is judged administratively complete, the applicant shall be advised by the Office to file the public notice required by ยง 773.6 of this chapter.


(5) A representative of the Office shall visit the proposed permit area to determine whether the operation and reclamation plans are consistent with actual site conditions. The applicant will be notified in advance of the time of the visit. At the time of the visit, the applicant shall have the locations of the proposed permit boundaries, topsoil storage areas, sediment control structures, roads, and other significant features contained in the application marked by flags.


(c) In addition to the information required by subchapter G of this chapter, the Office may require an applicant to submit supplementary information to ensure compliance with applicable Federal laws and regulations other than the Act.


(d) Where applicable, no person shall conduct surface coal exploration operations which result in the removal of more than 250 tons of coal nor shall any person conduct surface coal mining operations without a permit issued by the Secretary pursuant to 30 CFR part 773 and permits issued pursuant to State law, including: the Wetlands Protection Act (R.I. General Laws Section 2-1-22); Chapter 20 of the Waters and Navigation Act (petitions for ditches and drains) (R.I. General Laws Section 46-20-1 *et seq.*); the Coastal Resources Management Council Act of 1971 (R.I. General Laws Section 46-23-6); the Rhode Island Hazardous Waste Management Act of 1978 (R.I. General Laws Section 23-19.1-11 *et seq.*); the Rhode Island Act for Inspection of Dams and Reservoirs (R.I. General Laws Section 46-19-1 *et seq.*) and Chapter 23-28.28 of Rhode Island's Health and Safety Code (R.I. General Laws Section 23-28.28-1 *et seq.,* permits for blasting), and an order of approval authorizing discharge of sewage into waterways within the State and modification or operation of sewage disposal systems if applicable (R.I. General Laws Sections 46-12-1 to 46-12-37). The permit issued by the Secretary shall incorporate the requirements of the Rhode Island Historical Zoning Act of 1954, as amended (R.I. General Laws Section 45-24.1-1 *et seq.*) and the Rhode Island Antiquities Act of 1974 (R.I. General Laws Section 42-45.1-1 *et seq.*).


(e) The Secretary shall coordinate review and issuance of a coal exploration or surface coal mining permit with the review and issuance of other Federal and State permits listed in this section and 30 CFR part 773.



---

[N] [52 FR 13813, Apr. 24, 1987, as amended at 65 FR 79672, Dec. 19, 2000]




