# § 19.693   Operating requirements for alternating proprietorships.

(a) *Alternation journal.* Once the applications submitted under § 19.692 have been approved by the appropriate TTB officer, the alcohol fuel plant, or parts of the alcohol fuel plant, may be alternated. The outgoing and incoming proprietor must make entries in an alternation journal when the alcohol fuel plant, or parts of it, are alternated. The outgoing and incoming proprietor must enter the following information in the alternation journal:


(1) Name or trade name of the proprietor;


(2) Alcohol fuel plant permit number;


(3) Date and time of alternation;


(4) Quantity of spirits transferred in proof gallons.


(b) *Commencement of operations.* Except for spirits transferred to the incoming proprietor, the outgoing proprietor must remove all spirits from areas, rooms, or buildings to be alternated, prior to the effective date and time shown in the alternation journal. Fuel alcohol may be transferred to the incoming proprietor or may be retained by the outgoing proprietor in areas, rooms, or buildings to be alternated when the areas, rooms, or buildings are secured with locks, the keys to which are in the custody of the outgoing proprietor. Whenever operation of the areas, rooms, or buildings is to be resumed by a proprietor following suspension of operations by an alternating proprietor, the outgoing proprietor (except the proprietor of a small plant not required to file a bond) must furnish a consent of surety on form TTB F 5000.18 to continue in effect the operations bond covering their operations. The proprietor must do this prior to alternating the premises.


(c) *Records.* Each alternating proprietor must maintain separate records and submit separate reports in accordance with § 19.720. Entries in each proprietor's records must be in accordance with §§ 19.714 through 19.718 of this subpart. The following requirements also apply:


(1) Each alternating proprietor must show all transfers of spirits in the records;


(2) The outgoing proprietor must show in its production and disposition records the quantity of spirits and fuel alcohol transferred to the incoming proprietor;


(3) The incoming proprietor must show in their receipt record the quantity of spirits received by transfer;


(4) Each proprietor must include spirits transferred in the determinations of alcohol fuel plant size and bond amounts; and


(5) The provisions of § 19.685 regarding change of alcohol fuel plant type apply to each proprietor.



---

[N] [T.D. TTB-92, 76 FR 9090, Feb. 16, 2011, as amended by T.D. TTB-196, 89 FR 87939, Nov. 6, 2024]






