# § 51.180   Pharmacy services.

The facility management must provide routine and emergency drugs and biologicals to its residents, or obtain them under an agreement described in § 51.210(h) of this part. The facility management must have a system for disseminating drug information to medical and nursing staff.


(a) *Procedures.* The facility management must provide pharmaceutical services (including procedures that assure the accurate acquiring, receiving, dispensing, and administering of all drugs and biologicals) to meet the needs of each resident.


(b) *Service consultation.* The facility management must employ or obtain the services of a pharmacist licensed in a State in which the facility is located or a VA pharmacist under VA contract who—


(1) Provides consultation on all aspects of the provision of pharmacy services in the facility;


(2) Establishes a system of records of receipt and disposition of all controlled drugs in sufficient detail to enable an accurate reconciliation; and


(3) Determines that drug records are in order and that an account of all controlled drugs is maintained and periodically reconciled.


(c) *Drug regimen review.* (1) The drug regimen of each resident must be reviewed at least once a month by a licensed pharmacist.


(2) The pharmacist must report any irregularities to the primary physician and the director of nursing, and these reports must be acted upon.


(d) *Labeling of drugs and biologicals.* Drugs and biologicals used in the facility management must be labeled in accordance with currently accepted professional principles, and include the appropriate accessory and cautionary instructions, and the expiration date when applicable.


(e) *Storage of drugs and biologicals.* (1) In accordance with State and Federal laws, the facility management must store all drugs and biologicals in locked compartments under proper temperature controls, and permit only authorized personnel to have access to the keys.


(2) The facility management must provide separately locked, permanently affixed compartments for storage of controlled drugs listed in Schedule II of the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1976 and other drugs subject to abuse. 



---

[N] [65 FR 968, Jan. 6, 2000, as amended at 74 FR 19434, Apr. 29, 2009]




