# § 84.52   Definitions.

For the terms not defined in this subpart but that are defined in § 84.3, the definitions in § 84.3 shall apply. For the purposes of this subpart:


*Blend containing a regulated substance* means any mixture that contains one or more regulated substances.


*Export* means the transport of a product or specified component using a regulated substance from inside the United States or its territories to persons outside the United States or its territories, excluding United States military bases and ships for onboard use.


*Exporter* means the person who contracts to sell any product or specified component using a regulated substance for export or transfers a product or specified component using a regulated substance to an affiliate in another country.


*Importer* means any person who imports any product or specified component using or intended for use with a regulated substance into the United States. Importer includes the person primarily liable for the payment of any duties on the merchandise or an authorized agent acting on his or her behalf. The term also includes:


(1) The consignee;


(2) The importer of record;


(3) The actual owner; or


(4) The transferee, if the right to withdraw merchandise from a bonded warehouse has been transferred.


*Install* means to complete a field-assembled system's circuit, including charging with a full charge, such that the system can function and is ready for use for its intended purpose.


*Manufacture* means to complete the manufacturing and assembly processes of a product or specified component such that it is ready for initial sale, distribution, or operation.


*Product* means an item or category of items manufactured from raw or recycled materials which performs a function or task and is functional upon completion of manufacturing. The term includes, but is not limited to: appliances, foams, fully formulated polyols, self-contained fire suppression devices, aerosols, pressurized dispensers, and wipes.


*Retrofit* means to upgrade existing equipment where the regulated substance is changed, which—


(1) Includes the conversion of equipment to achieve system compatibility; and


(2) May include changes in lubricants, gaskets, filters, driers, valves, o-rings, or equipment components for that purpose. Examples of equipment subject to retrofit include air-conditioning and refrigeration appliances, fire suppression systems, and foam blowing equipment.


*Sector* means a broad category of applications including but not limited to: refrigeration, air conditioning and heat pumps; foams; aerosols; chemical manufacturing; cleaning solvents; fire suppression and explosion protection; and semiconductor manufacturing.


*Specified component* for purposes of equipment in the refrigeration, air conditioning, and heat pump sector means condensing units, condensers, compressors, evaporator units, and evaporators.


*Subsector* means processes, classes of applications, or specific uses that are related to one another within a single sector or subsector.


*Substitute* means any substance, blend, or alternative manufacturing process, whether existing or new, that may be used, or is intended for use, in a sector or subsector with a restriction on the use of regulated substances and that has a lower global warming potential than the GWP limit or restricted list of regulated substances and blends in that sector or subsector.


*System* means an assemblage of separate components that typically are connected and charged in the field with a regulated substance or substitute to perform a function or task.


*Use* means for any person to take any action with or to a regulated substance, regardless of whether the regulated substance is in bulk, contained within a product, or otherwise, except for the destruction of a regulated substance. Actions include, but are not limited to, the utilization, deployment, sale, distribution, offer for sale or distribution, discharge, incorporation, transformation, or other manipulation.






