# § 721.5700   Pentanenitrile, 3-amino-.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as pentanenitrile, 3-amino- (PMN P-91-222; CAS number 75405-06-0) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. 


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (a)(3), (a)(4), during both drumming and transfer of the substance requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(5)(i), (a)(5)(ii), and (a)(5)(iii) apply, and during transfer (but not drumming) of the substance, requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(5)(xii), (a)(5)(xiii), (a)(5)(xiv), and (a)(5)(xv) apply following submittal by the company, and written approval by the EPA, of the results of cartridge service life testing performance in accordance with *Interim Recommendations for Determining Organic Vapor Cartridge Service Life for Category 23C Respirators* (available through the TSCA Assistance Office), or equivalent, which demonstrates the effectiveness of the organic vapor cartridge, (a)(6)(v), (b) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), and (c). The requirements specified in § 721.63(a) (4) and (5) apply only during drumming activities and during transfer of liquid PMN substance from a process vessel into a tank, truck, or rail car. 


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 1.0 percent), (f), (g)(1)(i), (g)(1)(ix), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5).


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(q).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping requirements.* Requirements as specified in § 721.125 (a) through (i) are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section. 



---

[N] [57 FR 44069, Sept. 23, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]




