# 245.102   Policy.

See the policy guidance at PGI 245.102-70.




(1) *Mapping, charting, and geodesy property.* All Government-furnished mapping, charting, and geodesy (MC&G) property is under the control of the Director, National Geospatial Intelligence Agency.


(i) MC&G property shall not be duplicated, copied, or otherwise reproduced for purposes other than those necessary for contract performance.


(ii) Upon completion of contract performance, the contracting officer shall—


(A) Contact the Director, National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, 7500 Geoint Drive, Springfield, VA 22150, for disposition instructions;


(B) Direct the contractor to destroy or return all Government-furnished MC&G property not consumed during contract performance; and


(C) Specify the destination and means of shipment for property to be returned to the Government.


(2) *Government supply sources.* When a contractor will be responsible for preparing requisitioning documentation to acquire Government-furnished property (GFP) from Government supply sources, include in the contract the requirement to prepare the documentation in accordance with DLM 4000.25, Defense Logistics Management Standards (DLMS), Volume 2, Supply Standards and Procedures. Copies are available from the address cited at PGI 251.102.












(3) *Acquisition and management of industrial resources.* See Subpart 237.75 for policy relating to facilities projects.




(4) *GFP identification.*

(i) It is DoD policy that GFP be tagged, labeled, or marked based on DoD marking standards (MIL Standard 130) or other standards, when the requiring activity determines that such items are subject to serialized item management (serially-managed items). The list of Government-furnished property subject to serialized item management will be identified in the contract in accordance with PGI 245.103-72, Government-furnished property attachments to solicitations and awards.




(ii) *Exceptions.* The Contractor will not be required to tag, label, or mark—


(A) GFP that was previously tagged, labeled, or marked;


(B) Items, as determined by the head of the agency, that are to be used to support a contingency operation; or to facilitate defense against or recovery from nuclear, biological, chemical, or radiological attack;


(C) Items for which a determination and findings has been executed concluding that it is more cost effective for the Government requiring activity to assign, mark, and register the unique item identification after delivery of an item acquired from a small business concern or a commercial product acquired under FAR part 12 or part 8.


(*1*) The determination and findings shall be executed by—


(*i*) The Component Acquisition Executive for an Acquisition Category (ACAT) I program; or


(*ii*) The head of the contracting activity for all other programs.




(*2*) A copy of the executed determination and findings shall be provided to the Office of the Principal Director, Defense Pricing, Contracting, and Acquisition Policy (DPC) (Contracting eBusiness) via email at *osd.pentagon.ousd-a-s.mbx.dpc-cb@mail.mil.*

(D) Items that are contractor-acquired property;


(E) Property under any statutory leasing authority;


(F) Property to which the Government has acquired a lien or title solely because of partial, advance, progress, or performance-based payments;


(G) Intellectual property or software; or


(H) Real property.


(5) *Reporting Government property.* It is DoD policy that all Government property be reported in the GFP module or Wide Area WorkFlow module of the Procurement Integrated Enterprise Environment (PIEE) as required by the clause at 252.245-7005, Management and Reporting of Government Property.







---

[N] [74 FR 37647, July 29, 2009, as amended at 76 FR 3537, Jan. 20, 2011; 76 FR 6006, 6008, Feb. 2, 2011; 80 FR 2021, Jan. 15, 2015; 81 FR 36473, June 7, 2016; 86 FR 3839, Jan. 15, 2021; 88 FR 6588, Jan. 31, 2023; 88 FR 88537, Dec. 22, 2023; 89 FR 11748, Feb. 15, 2024; 89 FR 60832, July 29, 2024]










