# ยง 109-1.5303   Procedures.

(a) *Identification, marking and control.* To ensure the appropriate treatment of property at its disposal and to prevent inadvertent, uncontrolled release of high risk property, property should be assessed and evaluated as high risk property as early in its life cycle as practical.


(1) Newly acquired high risk personal property shall be identified and tracked during the acquisition process and marked upon receipt.


(2) All personal property shall be reviewed for high risk identification, marking, and database entry during regularly scheduled physical inventories, unless access to the property is difficult or impractical because the property is a component of a larger assembly, a complex operating system, or an older facility. The review of this property will be completed, prior to disposition, when replacing components or when operating systems and facilities are decommissioned and dismantling.


(3) High risk personal property which by its nature cannot be marked, such as stores items and metal stock, is exempt from this requirement. However, personal property management programs should contain documentation on the characterization of this property as high risk.


(b) *Disposition of high risk property.* (1) Prior to disposition, all personal property, materials or data will be assessed to determine:


(i) Whether it should be characterized as high risk, and


(ii) What actions are necessary to ensure compliance with applicable national security or nonproliferation controls.


(2) The DOE or designated contractor property management organization may not process high risk personal property into a reutilization/disposal program without performing the reviews prescribed by the local high risk property management system. The reviews must be properly documented, and all appropriate certifications and clearances received, in accordance with the approved site or facility personal property management program.


(3) The disposition (including demilitarization of items on the Munitions List) and handling of high risk personal property are subject to applicable provisions of subchapter H of the FPMR/FMR, subchapter H of this chapter, and the DOE Guidelines on Export Control and Nonproliferation.


(4) All applicable documentation, including records concerning the property's categorization as high risk, shall be included as part of the property transfer. The documentation shall be included with all transfers within, or external to, DOE.


(5) Unless an alternative disposition option appears to be in the best interest of the Government, surplus Trigger List components, equipment, and materials and nuclear weapon components shall either be sold for scrap after being rendered useless for their originally intended purpose or destroyed, with the destruction verified and documented. Requests for approval of an alternative disposition may be made through the cognizant Assistant Secretary to the Director of the Office of Nonproliferation and National Security.


(6) The following Export Restriction Notice, or approved equivalent notice, shall be included in all transfers, sales, or other offerings:


