# § 58.58   Debarment of service.

(a) The following acts or practices, or the causing thereof, may be deemed sufficient cause for the debarment, by the Administrator, of any person, including any agents, officers, subsidiaries, or affiliates of such person, from any or all benefits of the Act for a specified period. The rules of practice governing withdrawal of inspection and grading services in formal adjudicatory proceedings instituted by the Secretary (7 CFR, part 1, subpart H) shall be applicable to such debarment action.


(1) *Fraud or misrepresentation.* Any willful misrepresentation or deceptive or fraudulent practice or act found to be made or committed by any person in connection with: 


(i) The making or filing of any application for any inspection or grading service, appeal reinspection, or regrading service; 


(ii) The making of the product accessible for inspection or grading service; 


(iii) The making, issuing, or using or attempting to issue or use any inspection or grading certificate issued pursuant to the regulations in this subpart or the use of any official stamp, label, or identification; 


(iv) The use of the terms “United States,” “U.S.,” “Officially graded,” “Officially Inspected,” “Federal-State graded,” or “Government graded,” or terms of similar import in the labeling or advertising of any product without stating in conjunction therewith the official U.S. grade of the product; or 


(v) The use of any of the aforesaid terms or an official stamp, label, or identification in the labeling or advertising of any product that has not been inspected or graded pursuant to this part. 


(2) *Use of facsimile form.* Using or attempting to use a form which simulates in whole or in part any official identification for the purpose of purporting to evidence the U.S. grade of any product; or the unauthorized use of a facsimile form which simulates in whole or in part any official inspection or grading certificate, stamp, label, or other official inspection mark; and 


(3) *Mislabeling.* The use of any words, numerals, letters, or facsimile form which simulates in whole or in part any identification purporting to be a grade when such product does not comply with any recognized standards in general use for such grade, and such activity may be deemed sufficient cause for debarring such person from any or all benefits of the Act. 


(4) *Willful violation of the regulations in this subpart.* Willful violation of the provisions in this part or the Act, or the instructions or specifications issued thereunder. 


(5) *Interfering with an inspector or grader.* Any interference with or obstruction or any attempted interference or obstruction of any inspector or grader in the performance of his duties by intimidation, threat, bribery, assault, or other improper means.


(b) [Reserved]



---

[N] [37 FR 22363, Oct. 19, 1972. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, as amended at 43 FR 60138, Dec. 26, 1978. Redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981]




