# § 61.50   Technical assistance grants—general.

(a) *General.* VA provides technical assistance grants to entities or organizations with expertise in preparing grant applications relating to the provision of assistance for homeless veterans. The recipients must use the grants to provide technical assistance to nonprofit organizations with experience in providing assistance to homeless veterans in order to help such groups apply for grants under this part, or from any other source, for addressing the needs of homeless veterans. Current recipients of any grant under this part (other than a technical assistance grant), or their sub-recipients, are ineligible for technical assistance grants.


(b) *Allowable activities.* Technical assistance grant recipients may use grant funds for the following activities:


(1) Group or individual “how-to” grant writing seminars, providing instructions on applying for a grant. Topics must include:


(i) Determining eligibility;


(ii) Matching the awarding agency's grant mission to the applicant agency's strengths;


(iii) Meeting the specific grant outcome requirements;


(iv) Creating measurable goals and objectives for grants;


(v) Relating clear and concise grant project planning;


(vi) Ensuring appropriate grant project staffing; and


(vii) Demonstrating the applicant's abilities.


(2) Creation and dissemination of “how-to” grant writing materials, *i.e.*, compact disks, booklets, web pages or other media specifically designed to facilitate and instruct applicants in the completion of grant applications.


(3) Group or individual seminars, providing instructions on the legal obligations associated with grant applications. Topics must include:


(i) Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards under 2 CFR part 200;


(ii) Federal funding match and fund separation requirements; and


(iii) Property and equipment disposition.


(4) Telephone, video conferencing or email with potential grant applicants that specifically address grant application questions.


(c) *Unallowable activities.* Technical assistance grant recipients may not use grant funds for the following activities:


(1) Meetings, consortia, or any similar activity that does not assist community agencies in seeking grants to aid homeless veterans.


(2) Referral of individual veterans to agencies for benefits, housing, medical assistance, or social services.


(3) Lobbying.



---

[N] [78 FR 12604, Feb. 25, 2013, as amended at 80 FR 43323, July 22, 2015]




