# § 450.41   Policy review and approval.

(a) *General.* The FAA issues a policy approval to an applicant unless the FAA determines that a proposed launch or reentry would jeopardize U.S. national security or foreign policy interests, or international obligations of the United States.


(b) *Interagency consultation.* (1) The FAA consults with the Department of Defense to determine whether a license application presents any issues affecting U.S. national security.


(2) The FAA consults with the Department of State to determine whether a license application presents any issues affecting U.S. foreign policy interests or international obligations.


(3) The FAA consults with other Federal agencies, including the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, authorized to address issues identified under paragraph (a) of this section, associated with an applicant's proposal.


(c) *Issues during policy review.* The FAA will advise an applicant, in writing, of any issue raised during a policy review that would impede issuance of a policy approval. The applicant may respond, in writing, or amend its license application as required by § 413.17 of this chapter.


(d) *Denial of policy approval.* The FAA notifies an applicant, in writing, if it has denied policy approval for a license application. The notice states the reasons for the FAA's determination. The applicant may seek further review of the determination in accordance with § 413.21 of this chapter.


(e) *Application requirements for policy review.* In its license application, an applicant must—


(1) Identify the model, type, and configuration of any vehicle proposed for launch or reentry by the applicant;


(2) Describe the vehicle by characteristics that include individual stages, their dimensions, type and amounts of all propellants, and maximum thrust;


(3) Identify foreign ownership of the applicant as follows:


(i) For a sole proprietorship or partnership, identify all foreign ownership;


(ii) For a corporation, identify any foreign ownership interests of 10 percent or more; and


(iii) For a joint venture, association, or other entity, identify any participating foreign entities; and


(4) Identify the proposed vehicle flight profile, including:


(i) Launch or reentry site, including any contingency abort locations;


(ii) Flight azimuths, trajectories, and associated ground tracks and instantaneous impact points for the duration of the licensed activity, including any contingency abort profiles;


(iii) Sequence of planned events or maneuvers during flight;


(iv) Normal impact or landing areas for all mission hardware; and


(v) For each orbital mission, the range of intermediate and final orbits of each vehicle upper stage and their estimated orbital lifetimes.




