# ยง 60.5875b   How do I submit information required by these emission guidelines to the EPA?

(a) You must submit to the EPA the information required by these emission guidelines following the procedures in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section.


(b) All State plan submittals, supporting materials that are part of a State plan submittal, any State plan revisions, and all State reports required to be submitted to the EPA by the State plan must be reported through the EPA's State Plan Electronic Collection System (SPeCS). SPeCS is a web accessible electronic system accessed at the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (*http://www.epa.gov/cdx/*). States that claim that a State plan submittal or supporting documentation includes confidential business information (CBI) must submit that information on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage media to the EPA. The electronic media must be clearly marked as CBI and mailed to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: State and Local Programs Group, MD C539-01, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703.


(c) Only a submittal by the Governor or the Governor's designee by an electronic submission through SPeCS shall be considered an official submittal to the EPA under this subpart. If the Governor wishes to designate another responsible official the authority to submit a State plan, the EPA must be notified via letter from the Governor prior to the May 11, 2026, deadline for State plan submittal so that the official will have the ability to submit the initial or final State plan submittal in the SPeCS. If the Governor has previously delegated authority to make CAA submittals on the Governor's behalf, a State may submit documentation of the delegation in lieu of a letter from the Governor. The letter or documentation must identify the designee to whom authority is being designated and must include the name and contact information for the designee and also identify the State plan preparers who will need access to SPeCS. A State may also submit the names of the State plan preparers via a separate letter prior to the designation letter from the Governor in order to expedite the State plan administrative process. Required contact information for the designee and preparers includes the person's title, organization, and email address.


(d) The submission of the information by the authorized official must be in a non-editable format. In addition to the non-editable version all State plan components designated as federally enforceable must also be submitted in an editable version. Following initial State plan approval, States must provide the EPA with an editable copy of any submitted revision to existing approved federally enforceable State plan components, including State plan backstop measures. The editable copy of any such submitted State plan revision must indicate the changes made at the State level, if any, to the existing approved federally enforceable State plan components, using a mechanism such as redline/strikethrough. These changes are not part of the State plan until formal approval by the EPA.


(e) You must provide the EPA with non-editable and editable copies of any submitted revision to existing approved federally enforceable State plan components. The editable copy of any such submitted State plan revision must indicate the changes made at the State level, if any, to the existing approved federally enforceable State plan components, using a mechanism such as redline/strikethrough. These changes are not part of the State plan until formal approval by the EPA.






