# ยง 1240.50   Decision of the immigration judge.

(a) *Contents.* The decision of the immigration judge may be oral or written. Except when deportability is determined on the pleadings pursuant to ยง 1240.48(b), the decision of the immigration judge shall include a finding as to deportability. The formal enumeration of findings is not required. The decision shall also contain the reasons for granting or denying the request. The decision shall be concluded with the order of the immigration judge.


(b) *Summary decision.* Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, in any case where deportability is determined on the pleadings pursuant to ยง 1240.48(b) and the respondent does not make an application under ยง 1240.49, or the respondent applies for voluntary departure only and the immigration judge grants the application, the immigration judge may enter a summary decision on Form EOIR-7, Summary Order of Deportation, if deportation is ordered, or on Form EOIR-6, Summary Order of Voluntary Departure, if voluntary departure is granted with an alternate order of deportation.


(c) *Order of the immigration judge.* The order of the immigration judge shall direct the respondent's deportation, or the termination of the proceedings, or such other disposition of the case as may be appropriate. When deportation is ordered, the immigration judge shall specify the country, or countries in the alternate, to which respondent's deportation shall be directed. The immigration judge is authorized to issue orders in the alternative or in combination as he or she may deem necessary.




