# ยง 870.13   Records and inspection.

(a) *Required records.* The eligible domestic user shall maintain all records and reports relating to their Upland Cotton Domestic User Agreement for a period of three years following termination of the Agreement. At a minimum, records must include those listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section.


(1) A monthly consumption record including a detailed list of bales consumed, showing the bale numbers, net weights, date received, date consumed, type of eligible upland cotton, and a facility identifier. The consumption record must be accompanied by source documents such as purchase orders and invoices to verify the information provided.


(2) Documentation supporting the receiving of cotton, including a register of contracts, amendments, and cancellations. Records must show the number of bales received each month by type of cotton, supported by invoices or waybills and weight sheets documenting the net weight when received at the user's facility.


(3) Documentation tracing the consumed bale weight back to source documents showing the documented bale weight received at the user's facility.


(4) Documentation supporting the acquisition, consumption, and disposition of ineligible cotton and other textiles.


(5) A bale inventory record that summarizes, at least monthly, the eligible domestic user's beginning inventory, receipts, adjustments, consumption, and ending inventory.


(6) Documentation of capital expenditures that are equal to or greater than payments received.


(i) The eligible domestic user must record information about capital expenditures in a supplemental ledger as defined in ยง 870.2, including, but not limited to, detailed descriptions of each capital expenditure, acquisition date, date of payment, amount of payment, and proof of payment, serial number(s), invoice number, and location (applicable facility).


(ii) Capital expenditures must be grouped by Marketing Year.


(iii) Each line item must reflect only a single expense for an identifiable single expenditure.


(b) *Inspection of records.* (1) Upon request from WCMD, the eligible domestic user must forward to WCMD copies of any and all records which support the domestic user's claims for payment.


(2) Eligible domestic users must make records available at all reasonable times for an audit or inspection by authorized representatives of AMS, the United States Department of Agriculture, and/or any other governmental unit needing access for audit or inspection purposes.


(3) Eligible domestic users shall permit, and assist without impediment, any AMS-authorized individual to inspect or audit, on any business day during the normal and customary hours of business, the books, papers, records, accounts, and other applicable documents relating to the Agreement. Failure to provide access or respond timely to requests for information and records will result in denial of benefits.






