# ยง 830.320   Submission of unique device identification information.

(a) *Designation of contact for device identification.* Each labeler must designate an individual to serve as the point of contact with FDA on matters relating to the identification of medical devices marketed by the labeler. The contact for device information is responsible for ensuring FDA is provided with all information required by this part. The contact for device information may authorize an issuing agency or any other person to provide information to FDA on behalf of the labeler.


(b) *Information shall be submitted via electronic means.* All information required by this subpart shall be submitted electronically to FDA's Global Unique Device Identification Database (GUDID) in a format that we can process, review, and archive, unless the labeler has obtained a waiver from electronic submission of unique device identifier (UDI) data.


(c) *Waiver from electronic submission.* (1) A labeler may request a waiver from electronic submission of UDI data by submitting a letter addressed to the appropriate Center Director explaining why electronic submission is not technologically feasible; send the request by email to: *udi@fda.hhs.gov,* or by correspondence to: UDI Regulatory Policy Support, Center for Devices and Radiological Health, Food and Drug Administration, 10903 New Hampshire Ave., Bldg. 32, Rm. 3293, Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002.


(2) If the establishment where the labeler is located has obtained a waiver from electronic submission of registration and listing information under section 510(p) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the labeler is deemed to have a waiver from electronic submission of UDI data.


(3) A labeler that has a waiver from electronic submission of UDI data must send a letter containing all of the information required by ยง 830.310, as well as any ancillary information permitted to be submitted under ยง 830.340 that the labeler wishes to submit, within the time permitted by ยง 830.330, addressed to: UDI Regulatory Policy Support, Center for Devices and Radiological Health, Food and Drug Administration, 10903 New Hampshire Ave., Bldg. 32, Rm. 3293, Silver Spring, MD 20993-0002.



---

[N] [78 FR 58826, Sept. 24, 2013, as amended at 85 FR 18443, Apr. 2, 2020]




