# § 1.514(a)-2   Business lease rents and deductions for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1970.

(a) *Effective date.* This section applies to taxable years beginning before January 1, 1970.


(b) *In general*—(1) *Rents includible in gross income.* There shall be included with respect to each business lease, as an item of gross income derived from an unrelated trade or business, an amount which is the same percentage (but not in excess of 100 percent) of the total rents derived during the taxable year under such lease as:


(i) The amount of the business lease indebtedness at the close of the taxable year of the lessor tax-exempt organization, with respect to the premises covered by such lease, is of


(ii) The adjusted basis of such premises at the close of such taxable year


(2) *Determination of basis.* For purposes of the unrelated business income tax the basis (unadjusted) of property is determined under section 1012, and the adjusted basis of property is determined under section 1011. The determination of the adjusted basis of property is not affected by the fact that the organization was exempt from tax for prior taxable years. Proper adjustment must be made under section 1011 for the entire period since the acquisition of the property. Thus adjustment must be made for depreciation for all taxable years whether or not the organization was exempt from tax for any of such years. Similarly, for taxable years during which the organization is subject to the tax on unrelated business taxable income the fact that only a portion of the deduction for depreciation is taken into account under paragraph (c)(1) of this section does not affect the amount of the adjustment for depreciation.


(3) *Examples.* The application of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following examples, in each of which it is assumed that the taxpayer makes its returns under section 511 on the basis of the calendar year, and that the lease is not substantially related to the purpose for which the organization is granted exemption from tax.


(c) *Deductions*—(1) *Deductions allowable against gross income.* The same percentage is used in determining both the portion of the rent and the portion of the deductions taken into account with respect to the business lease in computing unrelated business taxable income. Such percentage is applicable only to the sum of the following deductions allowable under section 161:


(i) Taxes and other expenses paid or accrued during the taxable year upon or with respect to the real property subject to the business lease;


(ii) Interest paid or accrued during the taxable year on the business lease indebtedness;


(iii) A reasonable allowance for exhaustion, wear and tear (including a reasonable allowance for obsolescence) of the real property subject to such lease.


(2) *Excess deductions.* The deductions allowable under subparagraph (1) of this paragraph with respect to a business lease are not limited by the amount included in gross income with respect to the rent from such lease. Any excess of such deductions over such gross income shall be applied against other items of gross income in computing unrelated business taxable income taxable under section 511(a).


(3) *Example.* The application of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following example:



---

[N] [T.D. 7229, 37 FR 28145, Dec. 21, 1972]




