# § 401.44   Mooring in locks.

(a) The primary means of securing vessels in the locks is by way of the Hands-Free Mooring (HFM) system. Vessels being moored by HFM must have a minimum of one well rested crew member on deck during the lockage to assist the Bridge team.


(b) Single tugs, tug/barge combinations, and small vessels (less than 160m in overall length) that are not eligible to use HFM are to be processed without mooring lines at the Canadian Locks with the exception of upbound lockages at Locks 4, 5 and 6 in the Welland Canal.


(c) Vessels being moored by the Hands-Free Mooring system (HFM) or passing through a lock without the use of mooring lines shall have a minimum of one (1) well rested crew member on deck during the lockage to assist the bridge team.


(d) Vessels requiring the use of mooring lines shall be processed as follows:


(1) Mooring lines shall only be placed on mooring posts as directed by the officer in charge of the mooring operation.


(2) No winch from which a mooring line runs shall be operated until the officer in charge of a mooring operation has signaled that the line has been placed on a mooring post.


(3) Once the mooring lines are on the mooring posts, lines shall be kept slack until the “all clear” signal is given by the lock personnel. When casting off signal is received, mooring lines shall be kept slack until the “all clear” signal is given by the lock personnel.



---

[N] [89 FR 15961, Mar. 6, 2024, as amended at 90 FR 1883, Jan. 10, 2025]




