# § 127.15   Waivers from electronic reporting.

(a) NPDES permittees, facilities, and entities subject to this part [see § 127.1(a)] must electronically submit the minimum set of NPDES data in compliance with this part, 40 CFR part 3 (including, in all cases, subpart D to part 3), 40 CFR 122.22, and 40 CFR 403.12(l) unless a waiver is granted in compliance with this section and § 127.24.


(b) Temporary waivers from electronic reporting may be granted by the authorized NPDES program (EPA, or states, territories, and tribes that have received authorization to implement the NPDES program), in compliance with this section and § 127.24, to NPDES permittees, facilities, and entities subject to this part [see § 127.1(a)].


(1) Each temporary waiver must not extend beyond five years. However, NPDES-regulated entities may re-apply for a temporary waiver. It is the duty of the owner, operator, or duly authorized representative of the NPDES permittee, facility, and entity subject to this part [see §§ 122.22 of this chapter and 127.1(a)] to re-apply for a new temporary waiver. Authorized NPDES programs cannot grant a temporary waiver to an NPDES-regulated entity without first receiving a temporary waiver request from the NPDES-regulated entity.


(2) To apply for a temporary waiver, the owner, operator, or duly authorized representative of the NPDES permittee, facility, and entity subject to this part [see §§ 122.22 of this chapter and 127.1(a)] must submit the following information to their authorized NPDES program:


(i) Facility name;


(ii) NPDES permit number (if applicable);


(iii) Facility address;


(iv) Name, address and contact information for the owner, operator, or duly authorized facility representative;


(v) Brief written statement regarding the basis for claiming such a temporary waiver; and


(vi) Any other information required by the authorized NPDES program.


(3) The authorized NPDES program will determine whether to grant a temporary waiver. The authorized NPDES program must provide notice to the owner, operator, or duly authorized facility representative submitting a temporary waiver request, in compliance with the requirements of § 127.24.


(4) NPDES permittees, facilities, and entities subject to this part [see § 127.1(a)] that have received a temporary waiver must continue to provide the minimum set of NPDES data (as well as other required information in compliance with statutes, regulations, the NPDES permit, another control mechanism, or an enforcement order) in hard-copy format to the authorized NPDES program. The authorized NPDES program must electronically transfer these data to EPA in accordance with subpart C of this part.


(5) An approved temporary waiver is not transferrable.


(c) Permanent waivers from electronic reporting may be granted by the authorized NPDES program (EPA, or states, territories, and tribes that have received authorization to implement the NPDES program), in compliance accordance with this section and § 127.24, to NPDES permittees, facilities, and entities subject to this part [see § 127.1(a)].


(1) Permanent waivers are only available to facilities and entities owned or operated by members of religious communities that choose not to use certain modern technologies (*e.g.,* computers, electricity). Authorized NPDES programs cannot grant a permanent waiver to an NPDES-regulated entity without first receiving a permanent waiver request from the NPDES-regulated entity.


(2) To apply for a permanent waiver, the owner, operator, or duly authorized representative of the NPDES permittee, facility, and entity subject to this part [see §§ 122.22 of this chapter and 127.1(a)] must submit the information listed in § 127.15(b)(2) to their authorized NPDES program.


(3) An approved permanent waiver is not transferrable.


(4) NPDES permittees, facilities, and entities subject to this part [see § 127.1(a)] that have received a permanent waiver must continue to provide the minimum set of NPDES data (as well as other required information in compliance with statutes, regulations, the NPDES permit, another control mechanism, or an enforcement order) in hard-copy format to the authorized NPDES program. The authorized NPDES program must electronically transfer these data to EPA in accordance with subpart C of this part.


(d) Episodic waivers from electronic reporting may be granted by the authorized NPDES program (EPA, or states, territories, and tribes that have received authorization to implement the NPDES program) or the initial recipient, as defined in § 127.2(b), in compliance accordance with this section and § 127.24, to NPDES permittees, facilities, and entities subject to this part [see § 127.1(a)]. The following conditions apply to episodic waivers.


(1) No waiver request from the NPDES permittee, facility or entity is required to obtain an episodic waiver from electronic reporting.


(2) Episodic waivers are not transferrable.


(3) Episodic waivers cannot last more than 60 days.


(4) The authorized NPDES program or initial recipient will decide if the episodic waiver provision allows facilities and entities to delay their electronic submissions or to send hardcopy (paper) submissions. Episodic waivers are only available to facilities and entities in the following circumstances:


(i) Large scale emergencies involving catastrophic circumstances beyond the control of the facilities, such as forces of nature (*e.g.,* hurricanes, floods, fires, earthquakes) or other national disasters. The authorized NPDES program will make the determination if an episodic waiver is warranted in this case and must receive the hardcopy (paper) submissions.


(ii) Prolonged electronic reporting system outages (*i.e.,* outages longer than 96 hours). The initial recipient, which may also be the authorized NPDES program, will make the determination if an episodic waiver is warranted in this case and must receive the hardcopy (paper) submissions.




