# ยง 1200.33   Vouchers and project agreements.

(a) *General.* Each State shall submit official vouchers for expenses incurred to the Approving Official.


(b) *Content of vouchers.* At a minimum, each voucher shall provide the following information for expenses claimed in each program area:


(1) Program Area for which expenses were incurred and an itemization of project numbers and amount of Federal funds expended for each project for which reimbursement is being sought;


(2) Federal funds obligated;


(3) Amount of Federal funds allocated to local benefit (provided no less than mid-year (by March 31) and with the final voucher);


(4) Cumulative Total Cost to Date;


(5) Cumulative Federal Funds Expended;


(6) Previous Amount Claimed;


(7) Amount Claimed this Period;


(8) Matching rate (or special matching writeoff used, *i.e.*, sliding scale rate authorized under 23 U.S.C. 120).


(c) *Project agreements.* Copies of each project agreement for which expenses are being claimed under the voucher (and supporting documentation for the vouchers) shall be made promptly available for review by the Approving Official upon request. Each project agreement shall bear the project number to allow the Approving Official to match the voucher to the corresponding activity.


(d) *Submission requirements.* At a minimum, vouchers shall be submitted to the Approving Official on a quarterly basis, no later than 15 working days after the end of each quarter, except that where a State receives funds by electronic transfer at an annualized rate of one million dollars or more, vouchers shall be submitted on a monthly basis, no later than 15 working days after the end of each month. A final voucher shall be submitted to the Approving Official no later than 90 days after the end of the fiscal year, and all unexpended balances shall be carried forward to the current fiscal year.


(e) *Reimbursement.* (1) Failure to provide the information specified in paragraph (b) of this section shall result in rejection of the voucher.


(2) Failure to meet the deadlines specified in paragraph (d) of this section may result in delayed reimbursement.


(3) Vouchers that request reimbursement for projects whose project numbers or amounts claimed do not match the list of projects or exceed the estimated amount of Federal funds provided under ยง 1200.11(e), or exceed the allocation of funds to a program area in the HS Form 217, shall be rejected, in whole or in part, until an amended list of projects and/or estimated amount of Federal funds and an amended HS Form 217 is submitted to and approved by the Approving Official in accordance with ยง 1200.32.




