# § 890.1402   Definitions and deemed references.

(a) In this subpart—




*Billing unit* is a subdivision of the tribal employer's workforce that aligns tribal employees for purposes of administering FEHB enrollment and collection of payment. A billing unit may be either governmental or commercial or a combination of both. So long as a tribal employer purchases FEHB for at least one billing unit that is an Indian Tribe or tribal organization carrying out at least one program under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (ISDEAA) or Tribally Controlled Schools Act of 1988 (TCSA), or an urban Indian organization carrying out at least one program under title V of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act (IHCIA), the tribal employer may purchase FEHB for other billing units without regard to its programs.








*Paymaster* is the entity or entities designated by OPM as responsible for receiving FEHB premiums from the tribal employer, forwarding premiums to the Employees Health Benefits Fund, and maintaining enrollment records for all participating tribal employers.




*Payment* is the sum of the tribal employer's share of premium plus the tribal employees' share of premium plus any administrative fees or costs required under this subpart, due for the enrollment, in the aggregate, of the tribal employer's tribal employees.




*Pay period i*s the interval of time for which a paycheck is issued by the tribal employer for work performed by the tribal employee.




*Tribal employee* is a full-time or part-time common law employee of a tribal employer. An individual is a common law employee if, based on all the facts and circumstances, the tribal employer has the right to control and direct the individual who performs the services, not only as to the result to be accomplished by the work but also as to the details and means by which that result is accomplished. This determination is based on all facts and circumstances and shall be guided by the factors described by the Internal Revenue Service in Rev. Rul. 87-41, 1987-1 C.B. 296 and referenced in Joint Committee on Taxation report JCX-26-07 *Present Law and Background Relating to Worker Classification for Federal Tax Purposes,* dated May 7, 2007, and the determination shall be consistent with the tribal employer's determination of common law employee status for Federal employment tax purposes, if any. For purposes of this subpart, tribal employees do not include retirees or annuitants of a tribal employer, volunteers of a tribal employer, or others who are not common law employees of a tribal employer. Categories of excluded tribal employees are described at § 890.1405(b). FEHB benefits available to tribal employees are set forth in this subpart and to the extent there exists any ambiguity or inconsistency between this subpart and other subparts of part 890, the terms of this subpart will govern FEHB benefits available to tribal employees.




*Tribal employer* is an Indian tribe or tribal organization (as those terms are defined in 25 U.S.C. chapter 18, “Indian Health Care”) carrying out at least one program under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act or the TCSA (25 U.S.C. 2501 *et seq.*); or an urban Indian organization (as that term is defined in 25 U.S.C. chapter 18, “Indian Health Care”) carrying out at least one program under title V of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act. The tribe, tribal organization, or urban Indian organization is a tribal employer provided that it certifies entitlement to purchase FEHB according to the process described in subpart N. FEHB benefits that tribal employers are entitled to purchase for their tribal employees are set forth in this subpart and to the extent there exists any ambiguity or inconsistency between this subpart and other subparts of this part, the terms of this subpart will govern FEHB benefits available for purchase by tribal employers.




*Tribally controlled school* is a school (as the term is defined in section 2511 of 25 U.S.C. chapter 27, “Tribally Controlled School Grants”) that is operated by an Indian tribe or a tribal organization, enrolling students in kindergarten through grade 12, including a preschool; is not a local educational agency; and is not directly administered by the Bureau of Indian Affairs.




(b) In this subpart, wherever reference is made to other subparts of part 890—


(1) A reference to employee is deemed a reference to tribal employee;


(2) A reference to employer is deemed a reference to tribal employer;


(3) A reference to enrollee is deemed a reference to a tribal employee in whose name the enrollment is carried;


(4) A reference to employing agency, employing office, or agency is deemed a reference to tribal employer, and/or if the reference involves the subject of a paymaster function, the paymaster, as appropriate;


(5) A reference to United States, Federal Government, or Government in the capacity of an employer is deemed a reference to tribal employer;


(6) A reference to Federal Service or Government Service is deemed a reference to employment with a tribal employer;


(7) A reference to annuitant, survivor annuitant, or an individual with entitlement to an annuity is deemed inapplicable in the context of this subpart; and


(8) A reference incorporated into this subpart that does not otherwise apply to tribal employees and tribal employers shall have no meaning and is deemed inapplicable in the context of this subpart.





---

[N] [81 FR 95405, Dec. 28, 2016, as amended at 86 FR 49466, Sept. 3, 2021]




