# § 408.82   Conditions for group billing.

CMS agrees to a group billing arrangement only if the following conditions are met: 


(a) Conditions the group payer must meet. The group payer submits a written request for group billing— 


(1) Showing that all or part of the payments are made from the payer's funds or from funds due the enrollees and in the payer's possession; and 


(2) Agreeing not to charge the enrollees for the service of paying the premiums or for the administrative costs such as recordkeeping and postage. 


(b) *Enrollees eligible for group payment.* (1) Group payment may be made only on behalf of individuals who are already enrolled and are being billed for direct remittance. 


(2) Group payment may not be made for enrollees whose premiums are being deducted from monthly benefits in accordance with Subpart C of this part or being paid by the State under a buy-in agreement. 


(c) *Protection of enrollee's rights.* The use of group billing must not jeopardize the enrollees' right— 


(1) To confidentiality of personal information; 


(2) To terminate enrollment; 


(3) To resume individual payment of premiums if he or she wishes; and 


(4) To receive notice of any action that affects the SMI benefits. 


(d) *Authorization by the enrollee.* (1) To ensure maximum feasible protection of the rights specified in paragraph (c) of this section, each enrollee must give written authorization as specified in § 408.84(a)(2).


(2) A group payer that is not an entity of State or local government must submit all enrollee authorizations to CMS. 


(3) A group payer that is an entity of State or local government may retain the authorizations and certify to CMS that it has on file an authorization for each enrollee included in the group. 


(4) It is on the basis of the enrollee's authorization that CMS sends the group payer information about each enrollee, as necessary to carry out the group payment function. 


(e) *Size of group.* The number of enrollees must be at least 20, which is the minimum size sufficient to make group billing efficient. (Smaller groups may use the informal procedure described in § 408.80(b).) 




