# ยง 230.13   Daily inspection.

(a) *General.* An individual competent to conduct the inspection shall inspect each steam locomotive and its tender each day that they are offered for use to determine that they are safe and suitable for service. The daily inspection shall be conducted to comply with all sections of this part, and a daily inspection report filed, by an individual competent to conduct the inspection. See appendices A and B of this part.


(b) *Pre-departure.* At the beginning of each day the steam locomotive is used, an individual competent to do so shall, together with the daily inspection required in paragraph (a) of this section, inspect the steam locomotive and its tender and appurtenances to ensure that they are safe and suitable for service, paying special attention to the following items:


(1) Water glasses and gauge cocks;


(2) Boiler feedwater delivery systems, such as injectors and feedwater pumps; and


(3) Air compressors and governors, and the air brake system.


(c) *Inspection reports.* The results of the daily inspection shall be entered on an FRA Form No. 2 (See appendix C of this part) which shall contain, at a minimum, the name of the railroad, the initials and number of the steam locomotive, the place, date and time of the inspection, the signature of the employee making the inspection, a description of the non-complying conditions disclosed by the inspection, conditions found in non-compliance during the day and repaired and the signature of the person who repaired the non-conforming conditions. This report shall be filed even if no non-complying conditions are detected. A competent individual shall sign the report, certifying that all non-complying conditions were repaired before the steam locomotive is operated. This report shall be filed and retained for at least 92 days at the location designated by the steam locomotive owner and/or operator.




