# ยง 1.246-2   Limitation on aggregate amount of deductions.

(a) *General rule.* The sum of the deductions allowed by sections 243(a)(1) (relating to dividends received by corporations), 244(a) (relating to dividends received on certain preferred stock), and 245 (relating to dividends received from certain foreign corporations), except as provided in section 246(b)(2) and in paragraph (b) of this section, is limited to 85 percent of the taxable income of the corporation. The taxable income of the corporation for this purpose is computed without regard to the net operating loss deduction allowed by section 172, the deduction for dividends paid on certain preferred stock of public utilities allowed by section 247, any capital loss carryback under section 1212(a)(1), and the deductions provided in sections 243(a)(1), 244(a), and 245. For definition of the term *taxable income,* see section 63. 


(b) *Effect of net operating loss.* If the shareholder corporation has a net operating loss (as determined under sec. 172) for a taxable year, the limitation provided in section 246(b)(1) and in paragraph (a) of this section is not applicable for such taxable year. In that event, the deductions provided in sections 243(a)(1), 244(a), and 245 shall be allowable for all tax purposes to the shareholder corporation for such taxable year without regard to such limitation. If the shareholder corporation does not have a net operating loss for the taxable year, however, the limitation will be applicable for all tax purposes for such taxable year. In determining whether the shareholder corporation has a net operating loss for a taxable year under section 172, the deductions allowed by sections 243(a)(1), 244(a), and 245 are to be computed without regard to the limitation provided in section 246(b)(1) and in paragraph (a) of this section. 



---

[N] [T.D. 6992, 34 FR 825, Jan. 18, 1969, as amended by T.D. 7301, 39 FR 963, Jan. 4, 1974] 




