# § 404.17   Initial determination.

(a) *Time for processing.* The Freedom of Information and Privacy Office shall respond to valid requests for access within twenty working days of the date of receipt of the request letter. The time for response may be extended an additional ten working days for good cause, provided that the Freedom of Information and Privacy Office notifies the requester in writing.


(b) *Notice regarding request for access.* The Freedom of Information and Privacy Office shall notify the requester in writing of its decision to grant or deny a request for access.


(1) If the request is granted, then the notice shall either include the requested records, in releasable form, or shall describe the manner in which access to the record will be granted. The notice also shall inform the requester of any processing fee.


(2) A denial is a determination to withhold any requested record in whole or in part or a determination that the requested record does not exist or cannot be located. If the request is denied, then the denial notice shall state:


(i) The name, signature, and title or position of the person responsible for the denial;


(ii) The reasons for the denial; and 


(iii) The procedure for appeal of the denial under § 404.19 and a brief description of the requirements of that section.


(c) *Form of record disclosure.* Ex-Im Bank shall grant access to the requested records either by providing the requester with a copy of the record or, at the requester's option, by making the record available for inspection at a reasonable time and place. If Ex-Im Bank makes the record available for inspection, such inspection shall not unreasonably disrupt Ex-Im Bank operations. In addition, the requester must provide a form of official photographic identification—such as a passport, driver's license or identification badge—and any other form of identification bearing his or her name and address prior to inspection of the requested records. Records may be inspected by the requester in the presence of another individual, provided that the requester signs a form stating that Ex-Im Bank is authorized to disclose the record in the presence of both individuals.



---

[N] [64 FR 14374, Mar. 25, 1999. Redesignated and amended at 87 FR 41034, 41042, July 11, 2022]




