# § 25.1303   Flight and navigation instruments.

(a) The following flight and navigation instruments must be installed so that the instrument is visible from each pilot station: 


(1) A free air temperature indicator or an air-temperature indicator which provides indications that are convertible to free-air temperature. 


(2) A clock displaying hours, minutes, and seconds with a sweep-second pointer or digital presentation. 


(3) A direction indicator (nonstabilized magnetic compass). 


(b) The following flight and navigation instruments must be installed at each pilot station: 


(1) An airspeed indicator. If airspeed limitations vary with altitude, the indicator must have a maximum allowable airspeed indicator showing the variation of V_MO_ with altitude. 


(2) An altimeter (sensitive). 


(3) A rate-of-climb indicator (vertical speed). 


(4) A gyroscopic rate-of-turn indicator combined with an integral slip-skid indicator (turn-and-bank indicator) except that only a slip-skid indicator is required on large airplanes with a third attitude instrument system useable through flight attitudes of 360° of pitch and roll and installed in accordance with § 121.305(k) of this title. 


(5) A bank and pitch indicator (gyroscopically stabilized). 


(6) A direction indicator (gyroscopically stabilized, magnetic or nonmagnetic). 


(c) The following flight and navigation instruments are required as prescribed in this paragraph: 


(1) A speed warning device is required for turbine engine powered airplanes and for airplanes with V_MO_/M_MO_ greater than 0.8 V_DF_/M_DF_ or 0.8 V _D_/M_D_. The speed warning device must give effective aural warning (differing distinctively from aural warnings used for other purposes) to the pilots, whenever the speed exceeds V_MO_ plus 6 knots or M_MO_ + 0.01. The upper limit of the production tolerance for the warning device may not exceed the prescribed warning speed. 


(2) A machmeter is required at each pilot station for airplanes with compressibility limitations not otherwise indicated to the pilot by the airspeed indicating system required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section. 



---

[N] [Amdt. 25-23, 35 FR 5678, Apr. 8, 1970, as amended by Amdt. 25-24, 35 FR 7108, May 6, 1970; Amdt. 25-38, 41 FR 55467, Dec. 20, 1976; Amdt. 25-90, 62 FR 13253, Mar. 19, 1997] 




