# § 367.19   Accounting for leases.

(a) All leases must be classified as either capital or operating leases.


(b) The service company must record a capital lease as an asset in account 101.1, Property under capital leases (§ 367.1011) and an obligation in account 227, Obligations under capital leases—Non-current (§ 367.2270), or account 243, Obligations under capital leases—Current (§ 367.2430), at an amount equal to the present value at the beginning of the lease term of minimum lease payments during the lease term, excluding that portion of the payments representing executory costs such as insurance, maintenance, and taxes to be paid by the lessor, together with any related profit. However, if the determined amount exceeds the fair value of the leased property at the inception of the lease, the amount recorded as the asset and obligation must be the fair value.


(c) The service company, as a lessee, must recognize an asset retirement obligation (*See* General Instructions in § 367.22) arising from the property under a capital lease unless the obligation is recorded as an asset and liability under a capital lease. The service company must record the asset retirement cost by debiting account 101.1, Property under capital leases (§ 367.1011), and crediting the liability for the asset retirement obligation in account 230, Asset retirement obligations (§ 367.2300). Asset retirement costs recorded in account 101.1 (§ 367.1011) must be amortized by charging rent expense (*see* Operating Expense Instructions in § 367.82) or account 421, Miscellaneous income or loss (§ 367.4210), as appropriate, and crediting a separate subaccount of the account in which the asset retirement costs are recorded. Charges for the periodic accretion of the liability in account 230, Asset retirement obligations (§ 367.2300), must be recorded by a charge to account 411.10, Accretion expense (§ 367.4118), for service company property, and account 421, Miscellaneous income or loss (§ 367.4210), for non-service company property and a credit to account 230, Asset retirement obligations (§ 367.2300).


(d) Rental payments on all leases must be charged to rent expense, fuel expense, construction work in progress, or other appropriate accounts as they become payable.


(e) For a capital lease, for each period during the lease term, the amounts recorded for the asset and obligation must be reduced by an amount equal to the portion of each lease payment that would have been allocated to the reduction of the obligation, if the payment had been treated as a payment on an installment obligation (liability) and allocated between interest expense and a reduction of the obligation so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance.




