# § 118.6   Appeals process.

(a) *Owner or operator request to reconsider requirement to prepare a facility response plan.* In the event the owner or operator of a non-transportation-related onshore facility does not agree that the facility meets the applicability criteria under § 118.3 or with the Regional Administrator's determination under § 118.5 that the facility could, because of its location, reasonably be expected to cause substantial harm or significant and substantial harm to the environment by discharging CWA hazardous substances into or on the navigable waters or a conveyance to navigable waters, or that amendments to the facility response plan are necessary, such as changes to the worst case discharge planning quantity, the owner or operator may submit a request for reconsideration to the Regional Administrator and provide additional information and data in writing to support the request. The request and accompanying information must be submitted to the Regional Administrator within 60 days of receipt of notice of the Regional Administrator's original decision. The Regional Administrator shall consider the request and render a written decision with the basis for the determination as soon as practicable. The owner or operator shall then follow the preparation, submission, and implementation guidelines in § 118.4.


(b) *Owner or operator request to reconsider classification status.* In the event the owner or operator of a non-transportation-related onshore facility believes a change in classification status is warranted because of an unplanned event or change in the facility's characteristics (*i.e.,* substantial harm or significant and substantial harm), the owner or operator may submit a request for reconsideration to the Regional Administrator and provide additional information and data in writing to support the request. The Regional Administrator shall consider the request and render a written decision with the basis for the determination and notify the owner or operator as soon as practicable.


(c) *Appeals process following Regional Administrator decision.* After a request for reconsideration under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section has been denied by the Regional Administrator, an owner or operator may appeal a determination made by the Regional Administrator. The appeal shall be made to the EPA Administrator and shall be made in writing within 60 days of receipt of the decision from the Regional Administrator that the request for reconsideration was denied. A complete copy of the appeal must be sent to the Regional Administrator at the time the appeal is made. The appeal shall contain a clear and concise statement of the issues and points of fact in the case. It also may contain additional information from the owner or operator, or from any other person. The EPA Administrator may request additional information from the owner or operator, or from any other person. The EPA Administrator shall render a written decision with the basis for the determination and notify the owner or operator as soon as practicable. If the EPA Administrator determines a non-transportation-related onshore facility is subject to this regulation, the owner or operator must submit a facility response plan to the Regional Administrator following the preparation, implementation, and submission guidelines in § 118.4.






