# ยง 1800.1   Definitions.

As used in this part:


*Deepwater Horizon oil spill* means the blowout and explosion of the mobile offshore drilling unit *Deepwater Horizon* that occurred on April 20, 2010, and resulting hydrocarbon releases into the environment.


*Gulf Coast State* means any of the States of Alabama, Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas.


*Gulf Consortium* means the consortium of Florida counties formed to develop the Florida State Expenditure Plan pursuant to 33 U.S.C. 1321(t)(3)(B)(iii)(II).


*Inverse proportion* means a mathematical relation between two quantities such that one proportionally increases as the other decreases.


*Minimum allocation* means the amount made available to each Gulf Coast State which totals at least five percent of the total allocation made available under the Spill Impact Component.


*RESTORE Act* means the Resources and Ecosystems Sustainability, Tourist Opportunities, and Revived Economies of the Gulf Coast States Act of 2012.


*Spill Impact Component* means the component of the Gulf RESTORE program authorized by section 311(t)(3) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1321(t)(3)), as added by section 1603 of the Act, in which Gulf Coast States are provided funds by the Council according to a formula that the Council establishes by regulation, using criteria listed in the Act.


*Spill Impact Formula* means the formula established by the Council in accordance with section 311(t)(3)(A)(ii) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as added by section 1603 thereof.


*State Expenditure Plan* means the plan for expenditure of amounts disbursed under the Spill Impact Component that each Gulf Coast State must submit to the Council for approval.


*Treasury* means the U.S. Department of the Treasury, the Secretary of the Treasury, or his/her designee.


*Trust Fund* means the Gulf Coast Restoration Trust Fund.



---

[N] [80 FR 1586, Jan. 13, 2015, as amended at 80 FR 77584, Dec. 15, 2015]




