# § 1066.815   Exhaust emission test procedures for FTP testing.

(a) *General.* The FTP exhaust emission test sequence consists of a cold-start test and a hot-start test as described in § 1066.801.


(b) *PM sampling options.* Collect PM using any of the procedures specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section and use the corresponding equation in § 1066.820 to calculate FTP composite emissions. Testing must meet the requirements related to filter face velocity as described in § 1066.110(b)(2)(iii)(C), except as specified in paragraphs (b)(4) and (5) of this section. For procedures involving flow weighting, set the filter face velocity to a weighting target of 1.0 to meet the requirements of § 1066.110(b)(2)(iii)(C). Allow filter face velocity to decrease as a percentage of the weighting factor if the weighting factor is less than 1.0 and do not change the nominal CVS flowrates or secondary dilution ratios between FTP or UDDS test intervals. Use the appropriate equations in § 1066.610 to show that you meet the dilution factor requirements of § 1066.110(b)(2)(iii)(B). If you collect PM using the procedures specified in paragraph (b)(4) or (5) of this section, the residence time requirements in 40 CFR 1065.140(e)(3) apply, except that you may exceed an overall residence time of 5.5 s for sample flow rates below the highest expected sample flow rate.


(1) You may collect a separate PM sample for transient and stabilized portions of the cold-start UDDS and the hot-start UDDS. This may either be done by sampling with three bags or four bags. You may omit the stabilized portion of the hot-start test (bag 4) and use the stabilized portion of the cold-start test (bag 2) in its place.


(2) You may collect PM on one filter over the cold-start UDDS and on a separate filter over the hot-start UDDS.


(3) You may collect PM on one filter over the cold-start UDDS (bag 1 and bag 2) and on a separate filter over the 867 seconds of the stabilized portion of the cold-start UDDS and the first 505 seconds of the hot-start UDDS (bag 2 and bag 3). Note that this option involves duplicate measurements during the stabilized portion of the cold-start UDDS.


(4) You may collect PM on a single filter over the cold-start UDDS and the first 505 seconds of the hot-start UDDS using one of the following methods:


(i) Adjust your sampling system flow rate over the filter to weight the filter face velocity over the three intervals of the FTP based on weighting targets of 0.43 for bag 1, 1.0 for bag 2, and 0.57 for bag 3.


(ii) Maintain a constant sampling system flow rate over the filter for all three intervals of the FTP by increasing overall dilution ratios for bag 1 and bag 3. To do this, reduce the sample flow rate from the exhaust (or diluted exhaust) such that the value is reduced to 43% and 57%, respectively, of the bag 2 values. For constant-volume samplers, this requires that you decrease the dilute exhaust sampling rate from the CVS and compensate for that by increasing the amount of secondary dilution air.


(5) You may collect PM on a single filter over the cold-start UDDS and the full hot-start UDDS using one of the following methods:


(i) Adjust your sampling system flow rate over the filter to weight the filter face velocity based on weighting targets of 0.75 for the cold-start UDDS and 1.0 for the hot-start UDDS.


(ii) Maintain a constant sampling system flow rate over the filter for both the cold-start and hot-start UDDS by increasing the overall dilution ratio for the cold-start UDDS. To do this, reduce the sample flow rate from the exhaust (or diluted exhaust) such that the value is reduced to 75% of the hot-start UDDS value. For constant-volume samplers, this requires that you decrease the dilute exhaust sampling rate from the CVS and compensate for that by increasing the amount of secondary dilution air.


(c) *Gaseous sampling options.* Collect gaseous samples using any of the following procedures:


(1) You may collect a single sample for a full UDDS (cold-start or hot-start).


(2) You may sample emissions separately for transient and stabilized portions of any UDDS.


(3) You may omit the stabilized portion of the hot-start test (bag 4) and use the stabilized portion of the cold-start test (bag 2) in its place.


(d) *Test sequence.* Follow the exhaust emission measurement procedures specified in §§ 1066.410 through 1066.425, subject to the following exceptions and additional provisions:


(1) Take the following steps for the cold-start test:


(i) Precondition the vehicle as described in § 1066.816. Initiate the cold-start test following the 12 to 36 hour soak period.


(ii) Simultaneously start any electronic integrating devices, continuous data recording, and batch sampling before attempting to start the engine. Initiate the sequence of points in the test cycle when the engine starts. Place the vehicle in gear 15 seconds after engine starting, which is 5 seconds before the first acceleration.


(iii) At the end of the deceleration scheduled to occur 505 seconds into the cold-start UDDS, simultaneously switch all the sample flows from the cold-start transient interval to the stabilized interval, stopping all cold-start transient interval sampling and recording, including background sampling. Reset integrating devices for the stabilized interval and indicate the end of the cold-start interval in the recorded data. Operate the vehicle over the remainder of the UDDS. Turn the engine off 2 seconds after the end of the last deceleration in the stabilized interval (1,369 seconds after the start of the driving schedule).


(iv) Five seconds after the engine stops running, stop all stabilized interval sampling and recording, including background sampling. Stop any integrating devices for the stabilized interval and indicate the end of the stabilized interval in the recorded data. Note that the 5 second delay is intended to account for sampling system transport.


(2) Take the following steps for the hot-start test:


(i) Initiate the hot-start test (9 to 11) minutes after the end of the sample period for the cold-start UDDS.


(ii) Repeat the steps in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section. Operate the vehicle over the first 505 seconds of the UDDS. For tests that do not include bag 4 operation, turn off the engine and simultaneously stop all hot-start sampling and recording, including background sampling, and any integrating devices at the end of the deceleration scheduled to occur 505 seconds into the hot-start UDDS.


(iii) To include bag 4 measurement, operate the vehicles over the remainder of the UDDS and conclude the testing as described in paragraphs (d)(1)(iii) and (iv) of this section.


(3) This completes the procedure for measuring FTP exhaust emissions. See § 1066.801 and subpart J of this part for continuing the test sequence to measure evaporative or refueling emissions.



---

[N] [79 FR 23823, Apr. 28, 2014, as amended at 80 FR 9124, Feb. 19, 2015; 81 FR 74213, Oct. 25, 2016; 88 FR 4709, Jan. 24, 2023]




