# § 65.93   Inspection authorization: Renewal.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, to be eligible for renewal of an inspection authorization for a 2-year period an applicant must present evidence during the month of March of each odd-numbered year, at the responsible Flight Standards office, that the applicant still meets the requirements of § 65.91(c)(1) through (4). In addition, during the time the applicant held the inspection authorization, the applicant must show completion of one of the activities in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section by March 31 of the first year of the 2-year inspection authorization period, and completion of one of the five activities during the second year of the 2-year period:


(1) Performed at least one annual inspection for each 90 days that the applicant held the current authority; or


(2) Performed at least two major repairs or major alterations for each 90 days that the applicant held the current authority; or


(3) Performed or supervised and approved at least one progressive inspection in accordance with standards prescribed by the Administrator; or


(4) Attended and successfully completed a refresher course, acceptable to the Administrator, of not less than 8 hours of instruction; or


(5) Passed an oral test by an FAA inspector to determine that the applicant's knowledge of applicable regulations and standards is current.


(b) The holder of an inspection authorization that has been in effect:


(1) for less than 90 days before the expiration date need not comply with paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section.


(2) for less than 90 days before March 31 of an even-numbered year need not comply with paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section for the first year of the 2-year inspection authorization period.


(c) An inspection authorization holder who does not complete one of the activities set forth in § 65.93(a) (1) through (5) of this section by March 31 of the first year of the 2-year inspection authorization period may not exercise inspection authorization privileges after March 31 of the first year. The inspection authorization holder may resume exercising inspection authorization privileges after passing an oral test from an FAA inspector to determine that the applicant's knowledge of the applicable regulations and standards is current. An inspection authorization holder who passes this oral test is deemed to have completed the requirements of § 65.93(a) (1) through (5) by March 31 of the first year.


(d) A person who qualifies for the relief prescribed in § 61.40 of this chapter is eligible to renew an expired inspection authorization under this section, provided the requirements of § 61.40 of this chapter are met.



---

[N] [Doc. No. FAA-2007-27108, 72 FR 4404, Jan. 30, 2007, as amended by Docket FAA-2018-0119, Amdt. 65-57A, 83 FR 9171, Mar. 5, 2018; Docket No. FAA-2023-0825; Amdt. No. 65-65, 89 FR 80053, Oct. 1, 2024]






