# § 98.167   Records that must be retained.

In addition to the information required by § 98.3(g), you must retain the records specified in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section for each hydrogen production facility.


(a) If a CEMS is used to measure CO_2_ emissions, then you must retain under this subpart the records required for the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology in § 98.37, and, if the CEMS measures emissions from a common stack for multiple hydrogen production units or emissions from a common stack for hydrogen production unit(s) and other source(s), records used to estimate the decimal fraction of the total annual CO_2_ emissions from the CEMS monitoring location attributable to each hydrogen production unit.


(b) You must retain records of all analyses and calculations conducted to determine the values reported in § 98.166(b).




(c) [Reserved]


(d) The owner or operator must document the procedures used to ensure the accuracy of the estimates of fuel and feedstock usage in § 98.163(b), including, but not limited to, calibration of weighing equipment, fuel and feedstock flow meters, and other measurement devices. The estimated accuracy of measurements made with these devices must also be recorded, and the technical basis for these estimates must be provided.


(e) The applicable verification software records as identified in this paragraph (e). You must keep a record of the file generated by the verification software specified in § 98.5(b) for the applicable data specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (12) of this section. Retention of this file satisfies the recordkeeping requirement for the data in paragraphs (e)(1) through (12) of this section for each hydrogen production unit.




(1) Indicate whether the monthly consumption of each gaseous fuel or feedstock is measured as mass or volume (Equation P-1 of § 98.163).


(2) Monthly volume of the gaseous fuel or feedstock (scf at standard conditions of 68 °F and atmospheric pressure) (Equation P-1).


(3) Monthly mass of the gaseous fuel or feedstock (kg of fuel or feedstock) (Equation P-1).


(4) Average monthly carbon content of the gaseous fuel or feedstock (kg C per kg of fuel or feedstock) (Equation P-1).


(5) Average monthly molecular weight of the gaseous fuel or feedstock (kg/kg-mole) (Equation P-1).


(6) Indicate whether the monthly consumption of each liquid fuel or feedstock is measured as mass or volume (Equation P-2 of § 98.163).


(7) Monthly volume of the liquid fuel or feedstock (gallons of fuel or feedstock) (Equation P-2).


(8) Monthly mass of the liquid fuel or feedstock (kg of fuel or feedstock) (Equation P-2).


(9) Average monthly carbon content of the liquid fuel or feedstock (kg C per gallon of fuel or feedstock) (Equation P-2).


(10) Average monthly carbon content of the liquid fuel or feedstock (kg C per kg of fuel or feedstock) (Equation P-2).


(11) Monthly mass of solid fuel or feedstock (kg of fuel and feedstock) (Equation P-3 of § 98.163).


(12) Average monthly carbon content of the solid fuel or feedstock (kg C per kg of fuel and feedstock) (Equation P-3).



---

[N] [74 FR 56374, Oct. 30, 2009, as amended at 78 FR 71956, Nov. 29, 2013; 79 FR 63787, Oct. 24, 2014; 89 FR 31927, Apr. 25, 2024]




