# § 424.24   Requirements for medical and other health services furnished by providers under Medicare Part B.

(a) *Exempted services.* Certification is not required for the following: 


(1) Hospital services and supplies incident to physicians' services furnished to outpatients. The exemption applies to drugs and biologicals that cannot be self-administered, but not to partial hospitalization services, as set forth in paragraph (e) of this section.


(2) Outpatient hospital diagnostic services, including necessary drugs and biologicals, ordinarily furnished or arranged for by a hospital for the purpose of diagnostic study.


(b) *General rule.* Medicare Part B pays for medical and other health services furnished by providers (and not exempted under paragraph (a) of this section) only if a physician certifies the content specified in paragraph (c)(1) or (4), (d)(1), or (e)(1) of this section, as appropriate.


(c) *Outpatient physical therapy, occupational therapy, and speech-language pathology services*—(1) *Content of certification.* (i) The individual needs, or needed, physical therapy, occupational therapy, or speech-language pathology services.


(ii) The services were furnished while the individual was under the care of a physician, nurse practitioner, clinical nurse specialist, or physician assistant.


(iii) The services were furnished under a plan of treatment that meets the requirements of § 410.61 of this chapter.


(2) *Timing.* The initial certification must be obtained as soon as possible after the plan is established.


(3) *Signature.* (i) If the plan of treatment is established by a physician, nurse practitioner, clinical nurse specialist, or physician assistant, the certification must be signed by that physician or nonphysician practitioner.


(ii) If the plan of treatment is established by a physical therapist, occupational therapist, or speech-language pathologist, the certification must be signed by a physician or by a nurse practitioner, clinical nurse specialist, or physician assistant who has knowledge of the case, except as specified in paragraph (c)(5) of this section.


(4) *Recertification*—(i) *Timing.* Recertification is required at least every 90 days.


(ii) *Content.* When it is recertified, the plan or other documentation in the patient's record must indicate the continuing need for physical therapy, occupational therapy or speech-language pathology services.


(iii) *Signature.* The physician, nurse practitioner, clinical nurse specialist, or physician assistant who reviews the plan must recertify the plan by signing the medical record.


(5) *Treatment plan.* If the plan of treatment is established by a physical therapist, occupational therapist, or speech-language pathologist, and there is a written order or referral from the individual's physician, nurse practitioner (NP), physician assistant (PA), or clinical nurse specialist (CNS) in the patient's record and the therapist has documented evidence that the plan of treatment has been delivered to the physician, NP, PA, or CNS within 30 days of completion of the initial evaluation, the certification does not need to be signed by a physician, NP, CNS, or PA who has knowledge of the case. If there is no written order or referral from the individual's physician, NP, CNS, or PA, in the patient's record, the therapist must obtain the signature of the physician, NP, PA, or CNS on the plan of treatment in accordance with paragraph (c)(3) of this section. No references to an order or referral in this subsection shall be construed to require an order or referral for outpatient physical therapy, occupational therapy, or speech-language pathology services.


(d) *Intensive outpatient services: Content of certification and plan of treatment requirements*—


(1) *Content of certification.* (i) The individual requires such services for a minimum of 9 hours per week.


(ii) The services are or were furnished while the individual was under the care of a physician.


(iii) The services were furnished under a written plan of treatment that meets the requirements of paragraph (d)(2) of this section.


(2) *Plan of treatment requirements.* (i) The plan is an individualized plan that is established and is periodically reviewed by a physician in consultation with appropriate staff participating in the program, and that sets forth—


(A) The physician's diagnosis;


(B) The type, amount, duration, and frequency of the services; and


(C) The treatment goals under the plan.


(ii) The physician determines the frequency and duration of the services taking into account accepted norms of medical practice and a reasonable expectation of improvement in the patient's condition.


(3) *Recertification requirements*—(i) *Signature.* The physician recertification must be signed by a physician who is treating the patient and has knowledge of the patient's response to treatment.


(ii) *Timing.* Recertifications are required at intervals established by the provider, but no less frequently than every 60 days.


(iii) *Content.* The recertification must specify that the patient continues to require at least 9 hours of intensive outpatient services and describe the following:


(A) The patient's response to the therapeutic interventions provided by the intensive outpatient program.


(B) The patient's psychiatric symptoms that continue to place the patient at risk of relapse or hospitalization.


(C) Treatment goals for coordination of services to facilitate discharge from the intensive outpatient program.


(e) *Partial hospitalization services: Content of certification and plan of treatment requirements*—(1) *Content of certification.* (i) The individual requires such services for a minimum of 20 hours per week and would require inpatient psychiatric care if the partial hospitalization services were not provided.


(ii) The services are or were furnished while the individual was under the care of a physician.


(iii) The services were furnished under a written plan of treatment that meets the requirements of paragraph (e)(2) of this section.


(2) *Plan of treatment requirements.* (i) The plan is an individualized plan that is established and is periodically reviewed by a physician in consultation with appropriate staff participating in the program, and that sets forth—


(A) The physician's diagnosis;


(B) The type, amount, duration, and frequency of the services; and


(C) The treatment goals under the plan.


(ii) The physician determines the frequency and duration of the services taking into account accepted norms of medical practice and a reasonable expectation of improvement in the patient's condition.


(3) *Recertification requirements*—(i) *Signature.* The physician recertification must be signed by a physician who is treating the patient and has knowledge of the patient's response to treatment. 


(ii) *Timing.* The first recertification is required as of the 18th day of partial hospitalization services. Subsequent recertifications are required at intervals established by the provider, but no less frequently than every 30 days. 


(iii) *Content.* The recertification must specify that the patient would otherwise require inpatient psychiatric care in the absence of continued stay in the partial hospitalization program and describe the following: 


(A) The patient's response to the therapeutic interventions provided by the partial hospitalization program. 


(B) The patient's psychiatric symptoms that continue to place the patient at risk of hospitalization. 


(C) Treatment goals for coordination of services to facilitate discharge from the partial hospitalization program. 


(f) *Blood glucose testing.* For each blood glucose test, the physician must certify that the test is medically necessary. A physician's standing order is not sufficient to order a series of blood glucose tests payable under the clinical laboratory fee schedule.


(g) *All other covered medical and other health services furnished by providers*—(1) *Content of certification.* The services were medically necessary,


(2) *Signature.* The certificate must be signed by a physician, nurse practioner, clinical nurse specialist, or physician assistant who has knowledge of the case.


(3) *Timing.* The physician, nurse practioner, clinical nurse specialist, or physician assistant may provide certification at the time the services are furnished or, if services are provided on a continuing basis, either at the beginning or at the end of a series of visits.


(4) *Recertification.* Recertification of continued need for services is not required.



---

[N] [53 FR 6638, Mar. 2, 1988; 53 FR 12945, Apr. 20, 1988, as amended at 56 FR 8845, 8853, Mar. 1, 1991; 63 FR 58912, Nov. 2, 1998; 65 FR 18548, Apr. 7, 2000; 71 FR 69788, Dec. 1, 2006; 72 FR 66405, Nov. 27, 2007; 88 FR 82182, Nov. 22, 2023; 89 FR 98565, Dec. 9, 2024]




