# § 387.303T   Security for the protection of the public: Minimum limits.

(a) *Definitions.* (1) *Primary security* means public liability coverage provided by the insurance or surety company responsible for the first dollar of coverage.


(2) *Excess security* means public liability coverage above the primary security, or above any additional underlying security, up to and including the required minimum limits set forth in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.


(b)(1) Motor carriers subject to § 387.301T(a)(1) are required to have security for the required minimum limits as follows:


(i) *Small freight vehicles.*

(ii) *Passenger carriers.*

(2) Motor carriers subject to § 387.301T(a)(2) are required to have security for the required minimum limits as follows:


(3) Motor carriers subject to the minimum limits governed by this section, which are also subject to Department of Transportation limits requirements, are at no time required to have security for more than the required minimum limits established by the Secretary of Transportation in the applicable provisions of this part.


(4) *Foreign motor carriers and foreign motor private carriers.* Foreign motor carriers and foreign motor private carriers (Mexican), subject to the requirements of 49 U.S.C. 13902(c) and 49 CFR part 368 regarding obtaining certificates of registration from the FMCSA, must meet our minimum financial responsibility requirements by obtaining insurance coverage, in the required amounts, for periods of 24 hours or longer, from insurance or surety companies, that meet the requirements of § 387.315. These carriers must have available for inspection, in each vehicle operating in the United States, copies of the following documents:


(i) The certificate of registration;


(ii) The required insurance endorsement (Form MCS-90); and


(iii) An insurance identification card, binder, or other document issued by an authorized insurer which specifies both the effective date and the expiration date of the insurance coverage.


(5) Notwithstanding the provisions of § 387.301T(a)(1), the filing of evidence of insurance is not required as a condition to the issuance of a certificate of registration. Further, the reference to continuous coverage at § 387.313T(a)(6) and the reference to cancellation notice at § 387.313T(d) are not applicable to these carriers.


(c) *Household goods motor carriers: Cargo liability.* Security required to compensate individual shippers for loss or damage to property belonging to them and coming into the possession of household goods motor carriers in connection with their transportation service:


(1) For loss of or damage to household goods carried on any one motor vehicle—$5,000; and


(2) For loss of or damage to or aggregate of losses or damages of or to household goods occurring at any one time and place—$10,000.



---

[N] [82 FR 5307, Jan. 17, 2017, as amended at 83 FR 22877, May 17, 2018; 84 FR 51433, Sept. 30, 2019]




