# § 571.216a   Standard No. 216a; Roof crush resistance; Upgraded standard.

S1. *Scope.* This standard establishes strength requirements for the passenger compartment roof.


S2. *Purpose.* The purpose of this standard is to reduce deaths and injuries due to the crushing of the roof into the occupant compartment in rollover crashes.


S3 *Application and selection of compliance options.*

S3.1 *Application.*

(a) This standard applies to passenger cars, and to multipurpose passenger vehicles, trucks designed to carry at least one person, and buses with a GVWR of 4,536 kilograms (10,000 pounds) or less, according to the implementation schedule specified in S8 and S9 of this section. However, it does not apply to—


(1) School buses;


(2) Vehicles that conform to the rollover test requirements (S5.3) of Standard No. 208 (§ 571.208) by means that require no action by vehicle occupants;


(3) Convertibles, except for optional compliance with the standard as an alternative to the rollover test requirement (S5.3) of Standard No. 208; or


(4) Trucks built in two or more stages with a GVWR greater than 2,722 kilograms (6,000 pounds) not built using a chassis cab or using an incomplete vehicle with a full exterior van body.


(b) At the option of the manufacturer, vehicles within either of the following categories may comply with the roof crush requirements (S4) of Standard No. 220 (§ 571.220) instead of the requirements of this standard:


(1) Vehicles built in two or more stages, other than vehicles built using a chassis cab;


(2) Vehicles with a GVWR greater than 2,722 kilograms (6,000 pounds) that have an altered roof as defined by S4 of this section.


(c) Manufacturers may comply with the standard in this § 571.216a as an alternative to § 571.216.


S3.2 *Selection of compliance option.* Where manufacturer options are specified, the manufacturer shall select the option by the time it certifies the vehicle and may not thereafter select a different option for the vehicle. Each manufacturer shall, upon the request from the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, provide information regarding which of the compliance options it selected for a particular vehicle or make/model.


S4. *Definitions.*

*Altered roof* means the replacement roof on a motor vehicle whose original roof has been removed, in part or in total, and replaced by a roof that is higher than the original roof. The replacement roof on a motor vehicle whose original roof has been replaced, in whole or in part, by a roof that consists of glazing materials, such as those in T-tops and sunroofs, and is located at the level of the original roof, is not considered to be an altered roof.


*Convertible* means a vehicle whose A-pillars are not joined with the B-pillars (or rearmost pillars) by a fixed, rigid structural member.


S5. *Requirements.*

S5.1 When the test device described in S6 is used to apply a force to a vehicle's roof in accordance with S7, first to one side of the roof and then to the other side of the roof:


(a) The lower surface of the test device must not move more than 127 millimeters, and


(b) No load greater than 222 Newtons (50 pounds) may be applied to the head form specified in S5.2 of 49 CFR 571.201 located at the head position of a 50th percentile adult male in accordance with S7.2 of this section.


S5.2 The maximum applied force to the vehicle's roof in Newtons is:


(a) For vehicles with a GVWR of 2,722 kilograms (6,000 pounds) or less, any value up to and including 3.0 times the unloaded vehicle weight of the vehicle, measured in kilograms and multiplied by 9.8, and


(b) For vehicles with a GVWR greater than 2,722 kilograms (6,000 pounds), any value up to and including 1.5 times the unloaded vehicle weight of the vehicle, measured in kilograms and multiplied by 9.8.


S6. *Test device.* The test device is a rigid unyielding block whose lower surface is a flat rectangle measuring 762 millimeters by 1,829 millimeters.


S7. *Test procedure.* Each vehicle must be capable of meeting the requirements of S5 when tested in accordance with the procedure in S7.1 through S7.6.


S7.1 Support the vehicle off its suspension and rigidly secure the sills and the chassis frame (when applicable) of the vehicle on a rigid horizontal surface(s) at a longitudinal attitude of 0 degrees ±0.5 degrees. Measure the longitudinal vehicle attitude along both the left and right front sill. Determine the lateral vehicle attitude by measuring the vertical distance between a level surface and a standard reference point on the bottom of the left and right front side sills. The difference between the vertical distance measured on the left front side and the right front side sills is not more than ±10 mm. Close all windows, close and lock all doors, and close and secure any moveable roof panel, moveable shade, or removable roof structure in place over the occupant compartment. Remove roof racks or other non-structural components. For a vehicle built on a chassis-cab incomplete vehicle that has some portion of the added body structure above the height of the incomplete vehicle, remove the entire added body structure prior to testing (the vehicle's unloaded vehicle weight as specified in S5 includes the weight of the added body structure).


S7.2 Adjust the seats in accordance with S8.3.1 of 49 CFR 571.214. Position the top center of the head form specified in S5.2 of 49 CFR 571.201 at the location of the top center of the Head Restraint Measurement Device (HRMD) specified in 49 CFR 571.202a, in the front outboard designated seating position on the side of the vehicle being tested as follows:


(a) Position the three dimensional manikin specified in SAE Standard J826 JUL95 (incorporated by reference, see § 571.5), in accordance to the seating procedure specified in that document, except that the length of the lower leg and thigh segments of the H-point machine are adjusted to 414 and 401 millimeters, respectively, instead of the 50th percentile values specified in Table 1 of SAE J826 JUL95.


(b) Remove four torso weights from the three-dimensional manikin specified in SAE J826 (July 1995) (two from the left side and two from the right side), replace with two HRMD torso weights (one on each side), and attach and level the HRMD head form.


(c) Mark the location of the top center of the HRMD in three dimensional space to locate the top center of the head form specified in S5.2 of 49 CFR 571.201.


S7.3 Orient the test device as shown in Figure 1 of this section, so that—


(a) Its longitudinal axis is at a forward angle (in side view) of 5 degrees (±0.5 degrees) below the horizontal, and is parallel to the vertical plane through the vehicle's longitudinal centerline;


(b) Its transverse axis is at an outboard angle, in the front view projection, of 25 degrees below the horizontal (±0.5 degrees).


S7.4 Maintaining the orientation specified in S7.3 of this section—


(a) Lower the test device until it initially makes contact with the roof of the vehicle.


(b) Position the test device so that—


(1) The longitudinal centerline on its lower surface is within 10 mm of the initial point of contact, or on the center of the initial contact area, with the roof; and


(2) The midpoint of the forward edge of the lower surface of the test device is within 10 mm of the transverse vertical plane 254 mm forward of the forwardmost point on the exterior surface of the roof, including windshield trim, that lies in the longitudinal vertical plane passing through the vehicle's longitudinal centerline.


S7.5 Apply force so that the test device moves in a downward direction perpendicular to the lower surface of the test device at a rate of not more than 13 millimeters per second until reaching the force level specified in S5. Guide the test device so that throughout the test it moves, without rotation, in a straight line with its lower surface oriented as specified in S7.3(a) and S7.3(b). Complete the test within 120 seconds.


S7.6 Repeat the test on the other side of the vehicle.


S8. *Phase-in schedule for vehicles with a GVWR of 2,722 kilograms (6,000 pounds) or less.*

S8.1 *Vehicles manufactured on or after September 1, 2012, and before September 1, 2013.* For vehicles manufactured on or after September 1, 2012, and before September 1, 2013, the number of vehicles complying with this standard must not be less than 25 percent of:


(a) The manufacturer's average annual production of vehicles manufactured on or after September 1, 2009, and before September 1, 2012; or


(b) The manufacturer's production on or after September 1, 2012, and before September 1, 2013.


S8.2 *Vehicles manufactured on or after September 1, 2013, and before September 1, 2014.* For vehicles manufactured on or after September 1, 2013, and before September 1, 2014, the number of vehicles complying with this standard must not be less than 50 percent of:


(a) The manufacturer's average annual production of vehicles manufactured on or after September 1, 2010, and before September 1, 2013; or


(b) The manufacturer's production on or after September 1, 2013, and before September 1, 2014.


S8.3 *Vehicles manufactured on or after September 1, 2014, and before September 1, 2015.* For vehicles manufactured on or after September 1, 2014, and before September 1, 2015, the number of vehicles complying with this standard must not be less than 75 percent of:


(a) The manufacturer's average annual production of vehicles manufactured on or after September 1, 2011, and before September 1, 2014; or


(b) The manufacturer's production on or after September 1, 2014, and before September 1, 2015.


S8.4 *Vehicles manufactured on or after September 1, 2015.* Except as provided in S8.8, each vehicle manufactured on or after September 1, 2015 must comply with this standard.


S8.5 *Calculation of complying vehicles.*

(a) For purpose of complying with S8.1, a manufacturer may count a vehicle if it is certified as complying with this standard and is manufactured on or after September 1, 2012, but before September 1, 2013.


(b) For purposes of complying with S8.2, a manufacturer may count a vehicle if it:


(1) Is certified as complying with this standard and is manufactured on or after September 1, 2012, but before September 1, 2014; and


(2) Is not counted toward compliance with S8.1.


(c) For purposes of complying with S8.3, a manufacturer may count a vehicle if it:


(1) Is certified as complying with this standard and is manufactured on or after September 1, 2012, but before September 1, 2015; and


(2) Is not counted toward compliance with S8.1 or S8.2.


S8.6 *Vehicles produced by more than one manufacturer.*

S8.6.1 For the purpose of calculating average annual production of vehicles for each manufacturer and the number of vehicles manufactured by each manufacturer under S8.1 through S8.3, a vehicle produced by more than one manufacturer must be attributed to a single manufacturer as follows, subject to S8.6.2:


(a) A vehicle that is imported must be attributed to the importer.


(b) A vehicle manufactured in the United States by more than one manufacturer, one of which also markets the vehicle, must be attributed to the manufacturer that markets the vehicle.


S8.6.2 A vehicle produced by more than one manufacturer must be attributed to any one of the vehicle's manufacturers specified by an express written contract, reported to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration under 49 CFR Part 585, between the manufacturer so specified and the manufacturer to which the vehicle would otherwise be attributed under S8.6.1.


S8.7 *Small volume manufacturers.* Vehicles manufactured during any of the three years of the September 1, 2012 through August 31, 2015 phase-in by a manufacturer that produces fewer than 5,000 vehicles for sale in the United States during that year are not subject to the requirements of S8.1, S8.2, and S8.3.


S8.8 *Final-stage manufacturers and alterers.*

Vehicles that are manufactured in two or more stages or that are altered (within the meaning of 49 CFR 567.7) after having previously been certified in accordance with Part 567 of this chapter are not subject to the requirements of S8.1 through S8.3. Instead, all vehicles produced by these manufacturers on or after September 1, 2016 must comply with this standard.


S9 *Vehicles with a GVWR above 2,722 kilograms (6,000 pounds).*

(a) Except as provided in S9(b), each vehicle manufactured on or after September 1, 2016 must comply with this standard.


(b) Vehicles that are manufactured in two or more stages or that are altered (within the meaning of 49 CFR 567.7) after having previously been certified in accordance with part 567 of this chapter are not subject to the requirements of S8.1 through S8.3. Instead, all vehicles produced by these manufacturers on or after September 1, 2017 must comply with this standard.



---

[N] [74 FR 22384, May 12, 2009, as amended at 75 FR 17605, Apr. 7, 2010; 77 FR 768, Jan. 6, 2012; 87 FR 18599, Mar. 30, 2022]





