# ยง 86.1867-31   CO

Manufacturers may generate credits applicable to the CO_2_ fleet average program described in ยง 86.1865-12 by implementing specific air conditioning system technologies designed to reduce air conditioning refrigerant leakage over the useful life of their passenger automobiles and light trucks (including MDPV). Calculate credits for each air conditioning system used to generate CO_2_ credits. This section applies starting with model year 2031.


(a) Calculate an annual rate of refrigerant leakage from an air conditioning system in grams per year for refrigerants with GWP at or below 150 according to the procedures specified in SAE J2727 SEP2023 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 86.1).


(b) Determine the CO_2_-equivalent gram per mile leakage reduction separately for passenger automobiles and light trucks, as follows:


(1) Calculate the leakage credit to the nearest 0.1 g/mile using the following equation:


(2) Calculate the high leak disincentive, *HiLeakDis,* using the following equation, except that if the calculated result is less than zero, set *HiLeakDis* equal to zero:


(c) Calculate the total leakage reduction credits generated by the air conditioning system separately for passenger automobiles and light trucks to the nearest whole megagram using the following equation:


(d) Include the results of paragraph (c) of this section in your credit totals calculated in ยง 86.1865-12(k)(5).


(e) Calculate leakage credits using values for refrigerant global warming potential (*GWP*_REF_) as follows:


(1) Use the following values for the specific refrigerants:


(i) For HFC-152a, *GWP*_REF_ = 124.


(ii) For HFO-1234yf, *GWP*_REF_ = 1.


(iii) For CO_2_, *GWP*_REF_ = 1.


(2) EPA will assign values for *GWP*_REF,_ up to a value of 150, for other refrigerants upon request.





---

[N] [89 FR 28196, Apr. 18, 2024]








