# § 206.211   Determination of principal residence and contact information.

(a) *Annual certification.* At least once during each calendar year, the mortgagee shall verify the contact information for the borrower(s) and determine whether or not the property is the principal residence of at least one borrower. The mortgagee shall require each borrower to make an annual certification of his or her contact information and principal residence. As part of the annual certification, the borrower may designate an alternate individual as specified in § 206.40 to receive copies of the notifications from the mortgagee, and who the mortgagee shall contact if the borrower is unwilling or unable to reply to requests from the mortgagee. The mortgagee may rely on the certification unless it has information indicating that the certification may be false.


(b) *Requirements when an Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse exists.* Where an Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse has been identified, the mortgagee shall obtain an additional annual certification from the borrower confirming the Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse remains his or her spouse and the Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse continues to reside in the property as his or her principal residence.


(1) *Death of borrower with Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse.* If a borrower with an Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse has died, the mortgagee shall obtain the annual certification in paragraph (a) of this section from the Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse. For purposes of this paragraph, the term “Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse” shall replace the term “borrower” in paragraph (a) of this section.


(2) *Failure of previously Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse to reside in the property as his or her principal residence.* If a Non-Borrowing Spouse fails to reside in the property as his or her principal residence, the Non-Borrowing Spouse becomes an Ineligible Non-Borrowing Spouse and the deferral of due and payable status that would prevent the displacement of an Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse will no longer be in effect. Once this occurs, the Eligible Non-Borrowing Spouse annual certifications are no longer required to be obtained.




