# § 5.520   Proration of assistance.

(a) *Applicability.* This section applies to a mixed family other than a family receiving continued assistance, or other than a family who is eligible for and requests and receives temporary deferral of termination of assistance. An eligible mixed family who requests prorated assistance must be provided prorated assistance. 


(b) *Method of prorating assistance for Housing covered programs*—(1) *Proration under Rent Supplement Program.* If the household participates in the Rent Supplement Program, the rent supplement paid on the household's behalf shall be the rent supplement the household would otherwise be entitled to, multiplied by a fraction, the denominator of which is the number of people in the household and the numerator of which is the number of eligible persons in the household; 


(2) *Proration under Section 235 Program.* If the household participates in the Section 235 Program, the interest reduction payments paid on the household's behalf shall be the payments the household would otherwise be entitled to, multiplied by a fraction the denominator of which is the number of people in the household and the numerator of which is the number of eligible persons in the household; 


(3) *Proration under Section 236 Program without the benefit of additional assistance.* If the household participates in the Section 236 Program without the benefit of any additional assistance, the household's rent shall be increased above the rent the household would otherwise pay by an amount equal to the difference between the market rate rent for the unit and the rent the household would otherwise pay multiplied by a fraction the denominator of which is the number of people in the household and the numerator of which is the number of ineligible persons in the household; 


(4) *Proration under Section 236 Program with the benefit of additional assistance.* If the household participates in the Section 236 Program with the benefit of additional assistance under the rent supplement, rental assistance payment or Section 8 programs, the household's rent shall be increased above the rent the household would otherwise pay by: 


(i) An amount equal to the difference between the market rate rent for the unit and the basic rent for the unit multiplied by a fraction, the denominator of which is the number of people in the household, and the numerator of which is the number of ineligible persons in the household, plus; 


(ii) An amount equal to the rent supplement, housing assistance payment or rental assistance payment the household would otherwise be entitled to multiplied by a fraction, the denominator of which is the number of people in the household and the numerator of which is the number of ineligible persons in the household. 


(c) *Method of prorating assistance for Section 8 covered programs*—(1) *Section 8 assistance other than assistance provided for a tenancy under the Section 8 Housing Choice Voucher Program.* For Section 8 assistance other than assistance for a tenancy under the voucher program, the PHA must prorate the family's assistance as follows:


(i) *Step 1.* Determine gross rent for the unit. (Gross rent is contract rent plus any allowance for tenant paid utilities). 


(ii) *Step 2.* Determine total tenant payment in accordance with section 5.613(a). (Annual income includes income of all family members, including any family member who has not established eligible immigration status.)


(iii) *Step 3.* Subtract amount determined in paragraph (c)(1)(ii), (Step 2), from amount determined in paragraph (c)(1)(i), (Step 1). 


(iv) *Step 4.* Multiply the amount determined in paragraph (c)(1)(iii), (Step 3) by a fraction for which: 


(A) The numerator is the number of family members who have established eligible immigration status; and 


(B) The denominator is the total number of family members. 


(v) *Prorated housing assistance.* The amount determined in paragraph (c)(1)(iv) (Step 4) is the prorated housing assistance payment for a mixed family. 


(vi) *No effect on contract rent.* Proration of the housing assistance payment does not affect contract rent to the owner. The family must pay as rent the portion of contract rent not covered by the prorated housing assistance payment. 


(2) *Assistance for a Section 8 voucher tenancy.* For a tenancy under the voucher program, the PHA must prorate the family's assistance as follows:


(i) *Step 1.* Determine the amount of the pre-proration housing assistance payment. (Annual income includes income of all family members, including any family member who has not established eligible immigration status.)


(ii) *Step 2.* Multiply the amount determined in paragraph (c)(2)(i) (Step 1) by a fraction for which: 


(A) The numerator is the number of family members who have established eligible immigration status; and 


(B) The denominator is the total number of family members. 


(iii) *Prorated housing assistance.* The amount determined in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) (Step 2) is the prorated housing assistance payment for a mixed family. 


(iv) *No effect on rent to owner.* Proration of the housing assistance payment does not affect rent to owner. The family must pay the portion of rent to owner not covered by the prorated housing assistance payment.


(d) *Method of prorating assistance for Public Housing covered programs.* (1) The PHA must prorate the family's assistance;, except as provided in § 960.507 of this title, as follows:


(i) *Step 1.* Determine the total tenant payment in accordance with section 5.628. (Annual income includes income of all family members, including any family member who has not established eligible immigration status.)


(ii) *Step 2.* Subtract the total tenant payment from the PHA-established flat rent applicable to the unit. The result is the maximum subsidy for which the family could qualify if all members were eligible (“family maximum subsidy”).


(iii) *Step 3.* Divide the family maximum subsidy by the number of persons in the family (all persons) to determine the maximum subsidy per each family member who has citizenship or eligible immigration status (“eligible family member”). The subsidy per eligible family member is the “member maximum subsidy.”


(iv) *Step 4.* Multiply the member maximum subsidy by the number of family members who have citizenship or eligible immigration status (“eligible family members”).


(2) The product of steps 1 through 4 of paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section is the amount of subsidy for which the family is eligible (“eligible subsidy”). The family's rent is the PHA-established flat rent minus the amount of the eligible subsidy.


(e) *Method of prorating assistance when the mixed family's total tenant payment (TTP) is greater than the public housing flat rent.* When the mixed family's TTP is greater than the flat rent, the PHA must use the TTP as the mixed family TTP. The PHA subtracts from the mixed family TTP any established utility allowance, and the sum becomes the mixed family rent.



---

[N] [61 FR 5202, Feb. 9, 1996, as amended at 63 FR 23853, Apr. 30, 1998; 64 FR 13056, Mar. 16, 1999; 81 FR 12370, Mar. 8, 2016; 88 FR 9655, Feb. 14, 2023]




