# § 384.231   Satisfaction of State disqualification requirement.

(a) *Applicability.* The provisions of §§ 384.203, 384.206(b), 384.210, 384.213, 384.215 through 384.219, 384.221 through 384.224, and 384.231 of this part apply to the State of licensure of the person affected by the provision. The provisions of § 384.210 of this part also apply to any State to which a person makes application for a transfer CDL. 


(b) *Required action*—(1) *CLP or CDL holders.* A State must satisfy the requirement of this subpart that the State disqualify a person who holds a CLP or a CDL by, at a minimum, disqualifying the person's CLP or CDL for the applicable period of disqualification.


(2) *A person required to have a CLP or CDL.* A State must satisfy the requirement of this subpart that the State disqualify a person required to have a CLP or CDL who is convicted of an offense or offenses necessitating disqualification under § 383.51 of this subchapter. At a minimum, the State must implement the limitation on licensing provisions of § 384.210 and the timing and recordkeeping requirements of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section so as to prevent such a person from legally obtaining a CLP or CDL from any State during the applicable disqualification period(s) specified in this subpart.


(c) *Required timing.* The State must disqualify a driver as expeditiously as possible. 


(d) *Recordkeeping requirements.* The State must conform to the requirements of the CDLIS State Procedures Manual (incorporated by reference in § 384.107(b).) These requirements include the maintenance of such driver records and driver identification data on the CDLIS as the FMCSA finds are necessary to the implementation and enforcement of the disqualifications called for in §§ 384.215 through 384.219, and 384.221 through 384.224 of this part.



---

[N] [67 FR 49762, July 31, 2002, as amended at 73 FR 73126, Dec. 1, 2008; 76 FR 26896, May 9, 2011]




