# ยง 882.5830   Implanted diaphragmatic/phrenic nerve stimulator.

(a) *Identification.* An implanted diaphragmatic/phrenic nerve stimulator is a device that provides electrical stimulation of a patient's phrenic nerve to contract the diaphragm rhythmically and produce breathing in patients who have hypoventilation (a state in which an abnormally low amount of air enters the lungs) caused by brain stem disease, high cervical spinal cord injury, or chronic lung disease. The stimulator consists of an implanted receiver with electrodes that are placed around the patient's phrenic nerve and an external transmitter for transmitting the stimulating pulses across the patient's skin to the implanted receiver. 


(b) *Classification.* Class III (premarket approval). 


(c) *Date premarket approval application (PMA) or notice of completion of a product development protocol (PDP) is required.* A PMA or a notice of completion of a PDP is required to be filed with the Food and Drug Administration on or before July 7, 1986 for any implanted diaphragmatic/phrenic nerve stimulator that was in commercial distribution before May 28, 1976, or that has on or before July 7, 1986 been found to be substantially equivalent to an implanted diaphragmatic/phrenic nerve stimulator that was in commercial distribution before May 28, 1976. Any other implanted diaphragmatic/phrenic nerve stimulator shall have an approved PMA or a declared completed PDP in effect before being placed in commercial distribution.



---

[N] [44 FR 51730, Sept. 4, 1979, as amended at 51 FR 12101, Apr. 8, 1986]




