# § 433.2   Definitions.

For purposes of this part, the following terms, phrases and words are defined as follows:


*ANSI* means the American National Standards Institute.


*ASHRAE* means the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers.


*ASHRAE Baseline Building 2004* means a building that is otherwise identical to the proposed building but is designed to meet, but not exceed, the energy efficiency specifications in ANSI/ASHRAE/IESNA Standard 90.1-2004, Energy Standard for Buildings Except Low-Rise Residential Buildings, January 2004 (incorporated by reference, see § 433.3).


*ASHRAE Baseline Building 2007* means a building that is otherwise identical to the proposed building but is designed to meet, but not exceed, the energy efficiency specifications in ANSI/ASHRAE/IESNA Standard 90.1-2007, Energy Standard for Buildings Except Low-Rise Residential Buildings, December 2007 (incorporated by reference, see § 433.3).


*ASHRAE Baseline Building 2010* means a building that is otherwise identical to the proposed building but is designed to meet, but not exceed, the energy efficiency specifications in ANSI/ASHRAE/IESNA Standard 90.1-2010, Energy Standard for Buildings Except Low-Rise Residential Buildings, 2010 (incorporated by reference, see § 433.3).


*ASHRAE Baseline Building 2013* means a building that is otherwise identical to the proposed building but is designed to meet, but not exceed, the energy efficiency specifications in ASHRAE 90.1-2013 (incorporated by reference, see § 433.3).


*ASHRAE Baseline Building 2019* means a building that is otherwise identical to the proposed building but is designed to meet, but not exceed, the energy efficiency specifications in ASHRAE 90.1-2019 (incorporated by reference, see § 433.3).


*Commercial and multi-family high-rise residential building* means all buildings other than low-rise residential buildings.


*Construction cost* means all costs associated with the construction of a new Federal building. It includes, but is not limited to, the cost of preliminary planning, engineering, architectural, permitting, fiscal and economic investigations and studies, surveys, designs, plans, working drawings, specifications, procedures, and other similar actions necessary for the construction of a new Federal building. It does not include the cost of acquiring the land.




*Design for construction* means the stage when the energy efficiency and sustainability details (such as insulation levels, HVAC systems, water-using systems, etc.) are either explicitly determined or implicitly included in a project cost specification.




*Design for renovation* means the stage when the energy efficiency and sustainability details (such as insulation levels, HVAC systems, water-using systems, etc.) are either explicitly determined or implicitly included in a renovation project cost specification.




*DOE* means the U.S. Department of Energy.


*EISA-subject building or project* means, for purposes of this rule, any new Federal building or renovation project that is subject to the cost thresholds and reporting requirements in Section 433 of Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 (EISA) ((Pub. L. 110-140, codified at 42 U.S.C. 6834(a)(3)(D)(i))).






*Federal agency* means any department, agency, corporation, or other entity or instrumentality of the executive branch of the Federal Government, including the United States Postal Service, the Federal National Mortgage Association, and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation.




*Federal building* means any building to be constructed by, or for the use of, any Federal agency. Such term shall include buildings built for the purpose of being leased by a Federal agency and privatized military housing.




*Fiscal year (FY)* means the 12-month period beginning on October 1 of the year prior to the specified calendar year and ending on September 30 of the specified calendar year.




*Fossil fuel-generated energy consumption* means the on-site stationary consumption of fossil fuels that contribute to Scope 1 emissions for generation of electricity, heat, cooling, or steam as defined by “Federal Greenhouse Gas Accounting and Reporting Guidance” (Council on Environmental Quality, January 17, 2016). This includes, but is not limited to, combustion of fuels in stationary sources (*e.g.,* boilers, furnaces, turbines, and emergency generators). This term does not include mobile sources, fugitive emissions, or process emissions as defined by “Federal Greenhouse Gas Accounting and Reporting Guidance” (Council on Environmental Quality, January 17, 2016).






*IESNA* means Illuminating Engineering Society of North America.


*Life-cycle cost* means the total cost related to energy conservation measures of owning, operating and maintaining a building over its useful life as determined in accordance with 10 CFR part 436.


*Life-cycle cost-effective* means that the proposed building has a lower life-cycle cost than the life-cycle costs of the baseline building, as described by 10 CFR 436.19, or has a positive estimated net savings, as described by 10 CFR 436.20; or has a savings-to-investment ratio estimated to be greater than one, as described by 10 CFR 436.21; or has an adjusted internal rate of return, as described by 10 CFR 436.22, that is estimated to be greater than the discount rate as listed in OMB Circular Number A-94 (Guidelines and Discount Rates for Benefit-Cost Analysis of Federal Programs.”


*Low-rise residential building* means any building three stories or less in height above grade that includes sleeping accommodations where the occupants are primarily permanent in nature (30 days or more).




*Major renovation* means either major renovation of all Scope 1 fossil fuel-using systems in a Federal building or major renovation of one or more Scope 1 fossil fuel-using building systems or components, as defined in this section.




*Major renovation cost* means all costs associated with the repairing, remodeling, improving, extending, or other changes in a federal building. It includes, but is not limited to, the cost of preliminary planning, engineering, architectural, permitting, fiscal and economic investigations and studies, surveys, designs, plans, working drawings, specifications, procedures, and other similar actions necessary for the alteration of a Federal building.




*Major renovation of all Scope 1 fossil fuel-using systems in a building* means construction on an existing Federal building that is so extensive that it replaces all Scope 1 fossil fuel-using systems in the building. This term includes, but is not limited to, comprehensive replacement or restoration of most or all major systems, interior work (such as ceilings, partitions, doors, floor finishes, etc.), or building elements and features.




*Major renovation of a Scope 1 fossil fuel-using building system or Scope 1 fossil fuel-using component* means changes to a federal building that provide significant opportunities for energy efficiency or reduction in fossil fuel-related energy consumption. This includes, but is not limited to, replacement of the HVAC system, hot water system, or cooking system, or other fossil fuel-using systems or components of the building that have a major impact on fossil fuel usage.






*Multi-family high-rise residential building* means a residential Federal building that contains 3 or more dwelling units and that is designed to be 4 or more stories above grade.




*New Federal building* means any new building (including a complete replacement of an existing building from the foundation up) to be constructed by, or for the use of, any Federal agency. Such term shall include new buildings (including a complete replacement of an existing building from the foundation up) built for the purpose of being leased by a Federal agency, and privatized military housing.


*Process load* means the load on a building resulting from energy consumed in support of a manufacturing, industrial, or commercial process. Process loads do not include energy consumed maintaining comfort and amenities for the occupants of the building (including space conditioning for human comfort).


*Proposed building* means the design for construction of a new Federal commercial or multi-family high-rise residential building, proposed for construction, or a major renovation to a Federal commercial or multi-family high-rise residential building.




*Receptacle load* means the load on a building resulting from energy consumed by any equipment plugged into electrical outlets.


*Shift adjustment multiplier* means a multiplication factor that agencies may apply to their Maximum Allowable Fossil Fuel-Generated Energy Consumption by Building Category target based upon the weekly hours of active operation of the building. The weekly hours of operation used as a basis for the shift adjustment multiplier lookup include the time in which in the building is actively occupied and operating per its intended use type and unoccupied hours or other times of limited use (such as night-time setback hours).




*Technical impracticability* means achieving the fossil fuel-based energy consumption targets would:


(1) Not be feasible from an engineering design or execution standpoint due to existing physical or site constraints that prohibit modification or addition of elements or spaces;


(2) Significantly obstruct building operations and the functional needs of a building, specifically for industrial process loads, critical national security functions, mission critical information systems as defined in NIST SP 800-60 Vol. 2 Rev. 1, and research operations; or


(3) Significantly degrade energy resiliency and energy security of building operations as defined in 10 U.S.C. 101(e)(6) and 10 U.S.C. 101(e)(7) respectively.





---

[N] [71 FR 70281, Dec. 4, 2006, as amended at 72 FR 72570, Dec. 21, 2007; 76 FR 49284, Aug. 10, 2011; 78 FR 40953, July 9, 2013; 80 FR 68757, Nov. 6, 2015; 87 FR 20293, Apr. 7, 2022; 89 FR 35415, May 1, 2024]


