# ยง 67.63   Extent of title evidence required for captured, forfeited, special legislation, and wrecked vessels.

(a) In the case of a captured or forfeited vessel, the owner must provide evidence establishing the chain of title from the judicial decree of capture or decree of forfeiture, or the evidence of administrative forfeiture described in ยง 67.131(b). Citizenship evidence for all owners in the chain of title is required only if a coastwise endorsement is sought.


(b) In the case of a vessel which is the subject of special legislation or a wrecked vessel, the owner must provide:


(1) For initial documentation of a vessel or return to documentation of a vessel deleted from documentation, a copy of the last Federal, State, or foreign registration, the evidence of removal from foreign registry required by ยง 67.55, if applicable, and evidence establishing the chain of title from the last registration. If a coastwise endorsement is sought, the owner must present citizenship evidence for all owners in the chain of title from the grant of special legislation or the determination by the Director, National Vessel Documentation Center that the vessel is eligible for documentation under 46 U.S.C. 12107.


(2) For a documented vessel, the title evidence reflecting all ownership changes subsequent to the last documented owner of record. In addition, unless the vessel qualifies for exemption under ยง 67.11(b) or the vessel is the subject of Maritime Administration approval for unrestricted transfer, citizenship evidence must be presented for all owners in that chain of title.



---

[N] [CGD 89-007, CGD 89-007a, 58 FR 60266, Nov. 15, 1993, 58 FR 65131, Dec. 13, 1993, as amended by CGD 95-014, 60 FR 31604, June 15, 1995; USCG-1998-4442, 63 FR 52191, Sept. 30, 1998; USCG-2009-0702, 74 FR 49230, Sept. 25, 2009; USCG-2016-0531, 82 FR 43864, Sept. 20, 2017]




