# § 700.10   Authority.

(a) *Delegations to the Department of Commerce.* The priorities and allocations authorities of the President under Title I of the Defense Production Act with respect to industrial resources have been delegated to the Secretary of Commerce under Executive Order 13603 of March 16, 2012 (3 CFR, 2012 Comp., p. 225). The priorities authorities of the President under the Selective Service Act and related statutes with respect to industrial resources have also been delegated to the Secretary of Commerce under Executive Order 12742 of January 8, 1991 (3 CFR, 1991 Comp. 309).


(b) *Delegations by the Department of Commerce.* The Department of Commerce has authorized the Delegate Agencies to assign priority ratings to orders for industrial resources needed for use in approved programs.


(c) *Jurisdiction limitations.* (1) The priorities and allocations authority for certain items have been delegated under Executive Order 13603, other executive orders, or Interagency Memoranda of Understanding between other agencies. Unless otherwise agreed to by the concerned agencies, the provisions of this part are not applicable to:


(i) Food resources, food resource facilities, livestock resources, veterinary resources, plant health resources, and the domestic distribution of farm equipment and commercial fertilizer (delegated to the Department of Agriculture);


(ii) All forms of energy (delegated to the Department of Energy);


(iii) Health resources (delegated to the Department of Health and Human Services);


(iv) All forms of civil transportation (delegated to the Department of Transportation); and


(v) Water resources (delegated to the Department of Defense/U.S. Army Corps of Engineers).


(2) The priorities and allocations authority set forth in this part may not be applied to communications services subject to Executive Order 13618 of July 6, 2012—Assignment of National Security and Emergency Preparedness Communications Functions (3 CFR, 2012 Comp., p. 273).



---

[N] [79 FR 47565, Aug. 14, 2014, as amended at 89 FR 58971, July 22, 2024]




