# § 52.781   Character.

(a) *General.* The factor of character refers to the physical characteristics of the flesh of the cherries.


(b) (*A*) *classification.* Canned red tart pitted cherries that have a good character may be given a score of 27 to 30 points. “Good character” means that the cherries are thick-fleshed and have a firm, tender texture.


(c) (*B*) *classification.* Canned red tart pitted cherries that have a reasonably good character may be given a score of 24 to 26 points. Canned red tart pitted cherries that fall into this classification shall not be graded above U.S. Grade B, regardless of the total score for the product (this is a limiting rule). “Reasonably good character” means that the cherries may be reasonably thick-fleshed and may be slightly soft.


(d) (*C*) *classification.* Canned red tart pitted cherries that have a fairly good character may be given a score of 21 to 23 points. Canned red tart pitted cherries that fall into this classification shall not be graded above U.S. Grade C, regardless of the total score for the product (this is a limiting rule). “Fairly good character” means that the cherries may be thin-fleshed, and may be soft but not mushy, or slightly tough but not leathery.


(e) (*SStd.*) *classification.* Canned red tart pitted cherries that fail to meet the requirements for U.S. Grade C may be given a score of 0 to 20 points and shall not be graded above Substandard, regardless of the total score for the product (this is a limiting rule).





