# § 783.4   Deadlines for submission of reports and amendments.

Reports and amendments required under this part must be postmarked by the appropriate date identified in supplement no. 1 to this part 783. Required reports and amendments include those identified in paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section.


(a) *Initial Report:* Submitted by a location that commenced one or more of the civil nuclear fuel cycle-related activities described in § 783.1(a) of the APR during the previous calendar year, but that has not yet reported such activities to BIS. However, *Initial Reports* that are submitted to BIS during calendar year 2008 must describe only those activities in which you are engaged as of October 31, 2008, *except that* the description of activities involving uranium hard-rock mines must include any such mines that were closed down during calendar year 2008 (up to and including October 31, 2008), as well as mines that were in either operating or suspended status on October 31, 2008 (see § 783.1(a)(3)(i) of the APR).


(b) *Annual Update Report:* Submitted by a reportable location—this report describes changes to previously reported (i.e., declared) activities and any other reportable civil nuclear fuel cycle-related activities that took place at the location during the previous calendar year.


(c) *No Changes Report:* Submitted by a reportable location, in lieu of an *Annual Update Report,* when there are no updates or changes to any information, excluding the certifying official and dates signed and submitted, since the previous report submitted by that location.


(d) *Import Confirmation Report:* Submitted in response to a written notification from BIS, following a specific request by the IAEA.


(e) *Supplemental Information Report:* Submitted in response to a written notification from BIS, following a specific request by the IAEA.


(f) *Amended Report:* Submitted by a reportable location to report certain changes affecting the location's most recent *Initial Report* or *Annual Update Report.*

