# § 1755.504   Demarcation point.

(a) The demarcation point (DP) provides the physical and electrical interface between the telecommunications company's facilities and the customer's premises wiring.


(b) The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) rules in 47 CFR part 68 require telecommunications providers to establish a “DP” which marks a separation of the provider's facilities from the customer's (owned) premises wiring and equipment.


(c) RUS borrowers shall observe the FCC DP requirement by installing NIDs, BETs, or fused primary station protectors when required by section 800-30(a)(2) of ANSI/NFPA 70-1999, *NEC* ®, at all new or significantly modified customer access locations which are financed with RUS loan funds. *The National Electrical Code* ® and *NEC* ® are registered trademarks of the National Fire Protection Association, Inc., Quincy, MA 02269. The ANSI/NFPA 70-1999, *NEC* ®, is incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies are available from NFPA, 1 Batterymarch Park, P. O. Box 9101, Quincy, Massachusetts 02269-9101, telephone number 1 (800) 344-3555. Copies of ANSI/NFPA 70-1999, *NEC* ®, are available for inspection during normal business hours at RUS, room 2905, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., STOP 1598, Washington, DC 20250-1598, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(d) For all customer access locations of less than 12 pairs, RUS borrowers shall establish DPs by using either NIDs or fused primary station protectors when required by section 800-30(a)(2) of ANSI/NFPA 70-1999, *NEC* ®. For customer access locations of 12 pairs or greater, RUS borrowers shall establish DPs using either NIDs, BETs, or fused primary station protectors when required by section 800-30(a)(2) of ANSI/NFPA 70-1999, *NEC* ®.



---

[N] [66 FR 43317, Aug. 17, 2001, as amended at 69 FR 18803, Apr. 9, 2004]




