# § 721.11123   Carboxylic acids, C6-18 and C8-15-di-, polymers with diethylene glycol, glycerol, oleic acid, phthalic, acid and sorbitol.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified as carboxylic acids, C6-18 and C8-15-di-, polymers with diethylene glycol, glycerol, oleic acid, phthalic, acid and sorbitol (CAS No. 1877295-51-6) (PMN P-16-570) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to quantities of the PMN substance after they have been completely reacted (cured).


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (a)(3), (when determining which persons are reasonably likely to be exposed as required for § 721.63(a)(1) engineering control measures (*e.g.,* enclosure or confinement of the operation, general and local ventilation) or administrative control measures (*e.g.,* workplace policies and procedures) shall be considered and implemented to prevent exposure, where feasible), (b)(concentrations set at 1.0%) and (c).


(ii) *Hazard communication.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a), (b), (c), (d), (e)(concentration set at 1.0%), (f), (g)(1)(vi), (ix), (g)(2)(i), (ii), (iii), (v), (g)(3)(i), (g)(4)(iii) and (g)(5). Alternative hazard and warning statements that meet the criteria of the Globally Harmonized System (GHS) and OSHA Hazard Communication Standard may be used.


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(q). It is a significant new use to use the substance other than as an aromatic polyester polyol for manufacturing rigid foam. It is a significant new use to manufacture the substance with residual phthalate greater than 0.1% by weight. It is a significant new use to modify the manufacturing, processing or use activities of the PMN substance to result in the generation of a vapor, mist or aerosol.


(iv) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90(a)(1), (b)(1), and (c)(1).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph (b).


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a) through (i) and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section.



---

[N] [84 FR 57617, Oct. 28, 2019]




