# ยง 4274.331   IRP revolving loan fund loan conditions and terms.

(a) *Conditions and terms.* Loan conditions and terms made by an intermediary to an ultimate recipient from the IRP revolving loan fund will be negotiated by the intermediary and ultimate recipient.


(1) *Interest rate.* The interest rate must be within limits established by the intermediary's work plan approved by the Agency. The rate must be the lowest rate sufficient to cover the loan's proportional share of the IRP revolving loan fund's debt service reserve and administrative costs.


(2) *Repayment.* The loan term must be reasonable and prudent considering the purpose of the loan, expected repayment ability of the ultimate recipient, and the useful life of collateral, and must be within any limits established by the intermediary's work plan approved by the Agency.


(b) *Security.* The intermediary is responsible for adherence to prudent lending practices when obtaining adequate security on each of its ultimate recipient loans.


(c) *Loan limits.* Loans from intermediaries to ultimate recipients using the IRP revolving loan fund must not exceed the limits in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section. In accordance with ยง 4274.321(b)(5), these loan limits apply to ultimate recipients cumulatively based on all existing and pending loans from one or multiple IRP intermediaries. The loan limits of ultimate recipient loans made from Agency IRP funds may be based on the total amount of the Agency IRP loans awarded. However, should any portion of an intermediary's Agency IRP loan funds be de-obligated by the Agency, the ultimate recipient loan limit will thereafter be based on the actual amount of Agency IRP loan funds advanced to the intermediary and loaned out to ultimate recipients. Intermediaries with multiple IRP loans that have combined those IRP funds in accordance with ยง 4274.332(b)(6) may base their ultimate recipient loan limits on the combined amount of Agency IRP loans. The maximum amount of an IRP Agency loan made by an intermediary to an ultimate recipient, whether directly or held through loan participation and including the balance of any existing ultimate recipient loans, shall be the lesser of:


(1) $400,000; and


(2) Fifty percent of the originally-approved Agency IRP loan amount to an intermediary (including the unpaid balance of any existing ultimate recipient loans).






