# § 950.401   Campaign and publicity information.

(a) The specific campaign marketing and publicity information will be developed locally, except as specified in the regulations in this subpart. All information must be reviewed and approved by the LFCC for compliance with these regulations and will be developed and supplied by the LFCC or contracted agent.


(b) During the CFC solicitation period, a participating CFC organization may distribute bona fide educational information describing its services or programs. The organization must be granted permission by the Federal agency installation head, or designee to distribute the material. CFC Coordinators, Keyworkers, other employees or members of the LFCC, are not authorized to grant permission for the distribution of such information. If one organization is granted permission to distribute educational information, then the Federal agency installation head must allow any other requesting CFC organization to distribute educational information.


(c) Organizations and federations are encouraged to publicize their activities outside Federal facilities and to broadcast messages aimed at Federal employees in an attempt to solicit their contributions through the media and other outlets.


(d) Agency Heads are further authorized to permit the distribution by organizations of promotional information to Federal personnel in public areas of Federal workplaces in connection with the CFC, provided that the manner of distribution accords equal treatment to all charitable organizations furnishing such information for local use, and further provided that no such distribution shall utilize Federal personnel on official duty or interfere with Federal government activities. LFCC members and other campaign personnel are to be particularly aware of the prohibition of assisting any charitable organization or federated group in distributing any type of literature, especially during the campaign. Nothing in this section shall be construed to require a LFCC to distribute or arrange for the distribution of any material other than LFCC approved marketing materials.


(e) The Campaign Charity List and pledge form are the official sources of CFC information and shall be made available in electronic format to all potential contributors. The Charity List and pledging system must inform employees of their right to make a choice to contribute or not to contribute.


(f) Campaign marketing materials must be comprised of a simple and attractive design that is donor focused and has fundraising appeal and essential working information. The design must focus on the CFC without undue use of charitable organization symbols and logos or other distractions that compete for the donor's attention.


(g) The following applies specifically to the campaign Charity List:


(1) OPM will provide the approved Charity List as well as general campaign information. This will include:


(i) An explanation of the payroll deduction privilege.


(ii) A description and explanation of other electronic pledging, to include credit cards.


(iii) A statement that the donor may only designate charitable organizations or federations that are listed in the Charity List and that write-ins are prohibited.


(iv) Instructions as to how an employee may obtain more specific information about the programs and the finances of the organizations participating in the campaign.


(v) A description of employees' rights to pursue complaints of undue pressure or coercion in Federal fundraising activities.


(2) The Charity List will consist of National/International, International, and Local organizations. The order of these organizations will be rotated annually in accordance with OPM instructions. The order of listing of the federated and independent organizations will be determined by a random selection process. The order of organizations within each federation will be determined by the federation. The order within the National/International, International and Local independent groups will be alphabetical. Absent specific instructions from OPM to the contrary, each participating organization and federated group listing must include a description, not to exceed 256 characters, of its services and programs, plus a Web site address and telephone number for the Federal donor to obtain further information about the group's services, benefits, and administrative expenses. Each listing will include the organization's administration and fundraising percentage as calculated pursuant to § 950.203(a)(4). Neither the percentage of administrative and fundraising expenses, nor the Web site address or telephone number count toward the 256 character description.


(3) Each federation and charitable organization will be assigned a code in a manner determined by the Director. At the beginning of each federated group's listing will be the federation's name, code number, 256 character description, percentage of administrative and fundraising expenses, Web site address and telephone number. Each organization will be identified as National/International, International and Local, respectively.


(h) *Listing of national and local affiliate.* Listing of a national organization, as well as its local affiliate organization, is permitted. Each national or local organization must individually meet all of the eligibility criteria and submit independent documentation as required in § 950.202 and § 950.203 to be included in the Charity List. However, a local affiliate of a national organization that is not separately incorporated, in lieu of its own 26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3) tax exemption letter and, to the extent required by § 950.203(a)(2), audited financial statements, may submit the national organization's 26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3) tax exemption letter and audited financial statements, but must provide its own pro forma IRS Form 990, as defined in § 950.203(a)(3), for CFC purposes. The local affiliate must submit a certification from the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) or CEO equivalent of the national organization stating that it operates as a bonafide chapter or affiliate in good standing of the national organization and is covered by the national organization's 26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3) tax exemption, IRS Form 990 and audited financial statements.


(i) *Listing local offices.* Listing of a local organization, as well as its satellite offices, is permitted, as long as there is no more than one location within a county or parish. Each office must individually meet all of the eligibility criteria and submit independent documentation as required in § 950.202 and § 950.203 to be included in the Charity List. However, a satellite office that is not separately incorporated, in lieu of its own 26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3) tax exemption letter and, to the extent required by § 950.203(a)(2), audited financial statements, may submit the local organization's 26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3) tax exemption letter and audited financial statements, but must provide its own pro forma IRS Form 990, as defined in § 950.203(a)(3), for CFC purposes. The satellite office must submit a certification from the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) or CEO equivalent of the local organization stating that it operates as a bonafide office in good standing and is covered by the local organization's 26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3) tax exemption, IRS Form 990 and audited financial statements.


(j) *Multiple listing prohibited.* Except as provided in paragraphs (h) and (i) of this section, once an organization is deemed eligible, it is entitled to only one listing in the Charity List, regardless of the number of federations to which that organization belongs.




