# § 192.634   Transmission lines: Onshore valve shut-off for rupture mitigation.

(a) *Applicability.* For new or entirely replaced onshore transmission pipeline segments with diameters of 6 inches or greater that are located in high-consequence areas (HCA) or Class 3 or Class 4 locations and that are installed after April 10, 2023, an operator must install or use existing rupture-mitigation valves (RMV), or an alternative equivalent technology, according to the requirements of this section and §§ 192.179 and 192.636. RMVs and alternative equivalent technologies must be operational within 14 days of placing the new or replaced pipeline segment into service. An operator may request an extension of this 14-day operation requirement if it can demonstrate to PHMSA, in accordance with the notification procedures in § 192.18, that application of that requirement would be economically, technically, or operationally infeasible. The requirements of this section apply to all applicable pipe replacement projects, even those that do not otherwise involve the addition or replacement of a valve. This section does not apply to pipe segments in Class 1 or Class 2 locations that have a potential impact radius (PIR), as defined in § 192.903, that is less than or equal to 150 feet.


(b) *Maximum spacing between valves.* RMVs, or alternative equivalent technology, must be installed in accordance with the following requirements:


(1) *Shut-off segment.* For purposes of this section, a “shut-off segment” means the segment of pipe located between the upstream valve closest to the upstream endpoint of the new or replaced Class 3 or Class 4 or HCA pipeline segment and the downstream valve closest to the downstream endpoint of the new or replaced Class 3 or Class 4 or HCA pipeline segment so that the entirety of the segment that is within the HCA or the Class 3 or Class 4 location is between at least two RMVs or alternative equivalent technologies. If any crossover or lateral pipe for gas receipts or deliveries connects to the shut-off segment between the upstream and downstream valves, the shut-off segment also must extend to a valve on the crossover connection(s) or lateral(s), such that, when all valves are closed, there is no flow path for gas to be transported to the rupture site (except for residual gas already in the shut-off segment). Multiple Class 3 or Class 4 locations or HCA segments may be contained within a single shut-off segment. The operator is not required to select the closest valve to the shut-off segment as the RMV, as that term is defined in § 192.3, or the alternative equivalent technology. An operator may use a manual compressor station valve at a continuously manned station as an alternative equivalent technology, but it must be able to be closed within 30 minutes following rupture identification, as that term is defined at § 192.3. Such a valve used as an alternative equivalent technology would not require a notification to PHMSA in accordance with § 192.18.


(2) *Shut-off segment valve spacing.* A pipeline subject to paragraph (a) of this section must have RMVs or alternative equivalent technology on the upstream and downstream side of the pipeline segment. The distance between RMVs or alternative equivalent technologies must not exceed:


(i) Eight (8) miles for any Class 4 location,


(ii) Fifteen (15) miles for any Class 3 location, or


(iii) Twenty (20) miles for all other locations.


(3) *Laterals.* Laterals extending from shut-off segments that contribute less than 5 percent of the total shut-off segment volume may have RMVs or alternative equivalent technologies that meet the actuation requirements of this section at locations other than mainline receipt/delivery points, as long as all of the laterals contributing gas volumes to the shut-off segment do not contribute more than 5 percent of the total shut-off segment gas volume based upon maximum flow volume at the operating pressure. For laterals that are 12 inches in diameter or less, a check valve that allows gas to flow freely in one direction and contains a mechanism to automatically prevent flow in the other direction may be used as an alternative equivalent technology where it is positioned to stop flow into the shut-off segment. Such check valves that are used as an alternative equivalent technology in accordance with this paragraph (b)(3) are not subject to § 192.636, but they must be inspected, operated, and remediated in accordance with § 192.745, including for closure and leakage to ensure operational reliability. An operator using such a check valve as an alternative equivalent technology must notify PHMSA in accordance with §§ 192.18 and 192.179 and develop and implement maintenance procedures for such equipment that meet § 192.745.


(4) *Crossovers.* An operator may use a manual valve as an alternative equivalent technology in lieu of an RMV for a crossover connection if, during normal operations, the valve is closed to prevent the flow of gas by the use of a locking device or other means designed to prevent the opening of the valve by persons other than those authorized by the operator. The operator must develop and implement operating procedures and document that the valve has been closed and locked in accordance with the operator's lock-out and tag-out procedures to prevent the flow of gas. An operator using such a manual valve as an alternative equivalent technology must notify PHMSA in accordance with §§ 192.18 and 192.179.



---

[N] [Amdt. 192-130, 87 FR 20984, Apr. 8, 2022, as amended by Amdt. 192-134, 88 FR 50061, Aug. 1, 2023]






