# § 165.723   Safety Zone; Firework Displays in Captain of the Port Zone Jacksonville, Florida.

(a) *Regulated area.* The following area is established as a safety zone during the specified conditions: All waters within the Jacksonville COTP Zone within a 500 yard radius of a firework barge or barges during the storage, preparation, and launching of fireworks.


(1) The Coast Guard realizes that some large scale events, such as those with many participants or spectators, or those that could severely restrict navigation or pose a significant hazard, may still require separate special local regulations or safety zones that address the specific peculiarities of the event. In those situations, the Coast Guard will create special local regulations or safety zones specifically for the event, and those regulations will supersede the regulations in this rule.


(2) All coordinates are North American Datum 1983.


(b) *Definition.* The term “designated representative” means Coast Guard Patrol Commanders, including Coast Guard coxswains, petty officers, and other officers operating Coast Guard vessels, and Federal, state, and local officers designated by or assisting the Captain of the Port Jacksonville in the enforcement of the regulated area.


(c) *Regulations.* (1) All persons and vessels are prohibited from entering, transiting through, anchoring in, or remaining within the regulated area unless authorized by the Coast Guard Captain of the Port Jacksonville or a designated representative.


(2) Persons and vessels desiring to enter, transit through, anchor in, or remain in the regulated area may contact the Captain of the Port Jacksonville via telephone at (904) 564-7513, or a designated representative via VHF radio on channel 16, to request authorization. If authorization to enter, transit through, anchor in, or remain in the regulated area is granted by the Captain of the Port Jacksonville or a designated representative, all persons and vessels receiving such authorization must comply with the instructions of the Captain of the Port Jacksonville or a designated representative.


(3) The Coast Guard will provide notice of the regulated area via Broadcast Notice to Mariners or by on-scene designated representatives.


(4) This regulation does not apply to authorized law enforcement agencies operating within the regulated area.



---

[N] [USCG-2014-0152, 80 FR 11130, Mar. 2, 2015]




