# ยง 203.3   Definitions.

As used in this part, the following terms shall have the meaning set forth:


*Affected.* Subject to an actual or potential health or environmental threat arising from a release or a threatened release at an installation where the Secretary of Defense is planning or implementing environmental restoration activities including a response action under the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act as amended (CERCLA), corrective action under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), or other such actions under applicable Federal or State environmental restoration laws. This would include actions at active, closing, realigning, and formerly used defense installations. Examples of affected parties include individuals living in areas adjacent to installations whose health is or may be endangered by the release of hazardous substances at the facility.


*Applicant.* Any group of individuals that files an application for TAPP, limited by this part to community members of the RAB or TRC.


*Application.* A completed formal written request for TAPP that is submitted to the installation commander or to the identified decision authority designated for the installation. A completed application will include a TAPP project description.


*Assistance provider.* An individual, group of individuals, or company contracted by the Department of Defense to provide technical assistance under the Technical Assistance for Public Participation program announced in this part.


*Assistance provider's project manager.* The person legally authorized to obligate the organization executing a TAPP purchase order to the terms and conditions of the DoD's regulations and the contract, and designated by the provider to serve as the principal contact with the Department of Defense.


*Community Co-chair.* The individual selected by the community members of the RAB/TRC to represent them.


*Community member.* A member of the RAB or TRC who is also a member of the affected community. For the purpose of this part, community members do not include local, State, or Federal government officials acting in any official capacity.


*Community point of contact.* The community member of the RAB or TRC designated in the TAPP application as the focal point for communications with the Department of Defense regarding the TAPP procurement process. The community point of contact is responsible for completing the reporting requirements specified in ยง 203.14 of this part.


*Contact.* A written agreement between the installation or other instrumentality of the Department of Defense and another party for services or supplies necessary to complete the TAPP project. Contracts include written agreements and subagreements for professional services or supplies necessary to complete the TAPP projects, agreements with consultants, and purchase orders.


*Contracting officer.* The Federal official designated to manage the contract used to fulfill the TAPP request by the RAB or TRC.


*Contractor.* Any party (e.g., Technical Assistance Provider) to whom the installation or other instrumentality of the Department of Defense awards a contract. In the context of this part, it is synonymous with assistance provider.


*Cost estimate.* An estimate of the total funding required for the assistance provider to complete the TAPP project.


*DoD Component.* The military services including the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, and Air Force and those defense agencies with an environmental restoration program.


*DoD Component Deputy Assistant Secretary.* The individual in the office of the Secretary of the Army, Navy, Air Force responsible for making environmental decisions for their component or the director of the Defense Agencies.


*DoD Installation.* A facility that is controlled or operated or otherwise possessed by a department, or agency of the United States Department of Defense within the United States and its territories. In the context of this part, formerly used defense sites (FUDS) are included within the definition of a DoD Installation.


*DoD RAB Co-chair.* The individual selected by the installation commander, or equivalent, to serve as the installation co-chair of the RAB, represent DoD's interests, serve as liaison with community RAB members, and advocate RAB concerns within the installation staff.


*EPA.* The United States Environmental Protection Agency.


*Firm fixed price contract.* A contract wherein funding is fixed, prior to the initiation of a contract, for an agreed upon service or product.


*Formerly Used Defense Site (FUDS).* A site that has been owned by, leased to, possessed by, or otherwise under the jurisdiction of the Department of Defense. The FUDS program does not apply to those sites outside U.S. jurisdiction.


*Purchase order.* An offer by the Government to buy supplies or services from a commercial source, upon specified terms and conditions, the total cost of which cannot exceed the small purchase limit of $100,000. Purchase orders are governed by Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR) (48 CFR part 13), and the Simplified Acquisition Procedures (SAP).


*Restoration Advisory Board (RAB).* The RAB is a forum for representatives of the Department of Defense, local community, and EPA and/or State, local, and tribal officials to discuss and exchange information about the installation's environmental restoration program. The RAB provides stakeholders an opportunity make their views known, review progress and participate in dialogue with the decision makers.


*Statement of Work.* That portion of a contract which describes the actual work to be done by means of specifications or minimum requirements, quantities, performance dates, time and place of performance, and quality requirements. It is key to any procurement because it is the basis for the contractor's response and development of proposed costs.


*TAPP approval.* Signifies that the Department of Defense has approved the eligibility of the proposed TAPP project and will, subject to the availability of funds, undertake an acquisition to obtain the services specified in the TAPP application submitted by the RAB or TRC. The government will conduct the acquisition in accordance with all of the applicable rules and requirements of the FAR and the SAP. Approval does not constitute an agreement to direct an award to a specific source if such an action would be contrary to the FAR.


*TAPP project description.* A discussion of the assistance requested that includes the elements listed in Section 203.10 of this part. The project description should contain sufficient detail to enable the Department of Defense to determine the nature and eligibility of the project, identify potential providers and estimate costs, and prepare a statement of work to begin the procurement process.


*Technical assistance.* Those activities specified in ยง 203.10 of this part that will contribute to the public's ability to provide input to the decision-making process by improving the public's understanding of overall conditions and activities. Technical assistance may include interpreting technical documents; assessing technologies; participating in relative risk evaluations, understanding health implications; and, training.


Technical assistance does not include those activities prohibited under Section 203.11 of this part, such as litigation or underwriting legal actions; political activity; generation of new primary data such as well drilling and testing, including split sampling; reopening final DoD decisions or conducting disputes with the Department of Defense; or epidemiological or health studies, such as blood or urine testing.


*Technical Review Committee (TRC).* A group comprised of the Department of Defense, EPA, State, and local authorities and a public representative of the community formed to meet the requirements of 10 U.S.C. 2705(c), the Department of Defense Environmental Restoration Program. Primarily functioning to review installation restoration documents, these committees are being expanded and modified at installations where interest or need necessitates the creation of a RAB.




