# § 221.3   Definitions.

Unless otherwise noted, the following terms and their definitions are for the purposes of this part:


*Beneficiary.* Individuals affiliated with the DoD and any of the uniformed Services identified in § 221.2 Applicability, that may be eligible for benefits or entitlements.


*Certified copy.* A copy of a document that is certified as a true original and:


(1) Conveys the appropriate seal or markings of the issuer;


(2) Has a means to validate the authenticity of the document by a reference or source number;


(3) Is a notarized legal document or other document approved by a judge advocate, member of any of the armed forces, or other eligible person in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1044a; or


(4) Has the appropriate certificate of authentication by a U.S. Consular Officer in the foreign country of issuance which attests to the authenticity of the signature and seal.


*DoD beneficiary (DB).* Beneficiaries who qualify for DoD benefits or entitlements who may be credentialed in accordance with National Institute of Science and Technology Special Publication 800-63-2, “Electronic Authentication Guideline” (available at *http://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-63-2.pdf*). This population may include widows, widowers, and eligible former spouses.


*Dependent.* An individual whose relationship to the sponsor leads to entitlement to benefits and privileges.


*DS Logon credential.* A username and password to allow Service members, beneficiaries, and other individuals affiliated with the DoD secure access to self-service websites.


*DS Logon credential holder.* A Service member, beneficiary, and other individual affiliated with the DoD who has applied for and received a DS Logon credential.


*Former member.* An individual who is eligible for, or entitled to, retired pay for non-regular service in accordance with 31 U.S.C. chapter 1223, but who has been discharged from the Service and who maintains no military affiliation.


*Former spouse.* An individual who was married to a uniformed services member for at least 20 years, and the member had at least 20 years of service creditable toward retirement, and the marriage overlapped as follows:


(1) Twenty years marriage, 20 years creditable service for retirement, and 20 years overlap between the marriage and the service (referred to as 20/20/20). The benefits eligibility begins on the date of divorce;


(2) Twenty years marriage, 20 years creditable service for retirement, and 15 years overlap between the marriage and the service (referred to as 20/20/15). The benefits eligibility begins on the date of divorce; or


(3) A spouse whose marriage was terminated from a uniformed Service member who has their eligibility to receive retired pay terminated as a result of misconduct based on Service-documented abuse of the spouse and has 10 years of marriage, 20 years of creditable service for retirement, 10 years of overlap between the marriage and the service (referred to as 10/20/10). The benefits eligibility begins on the date of divorce.


*Legal guardian (LG).* The terms “guardian” and “conservator” are used synonymously. Some States may limit the authority of a guardian to specific types of health care decisions; a court may also impose limitations on the health care decisions.


*Surrogate.* A person who has been delegated authority, either by an eligible individual who is at least 18 years of age and mentally competent to consent or by a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States (or possession of the United States), to act on behalf of the eligible individual in a specific role.


*Widow.* The female spouse of a deceased member of the uniformed services.


*Widower.* The male spouse of a deceased member of the uniformed services.




