# § 71.30   Reassessment of Eligible Veterans and Family Caregivers.

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the eligible veteran and Family Caregiver will be reassessed by VA (in collaboration with the primary care team to the maximum extent practicable) on an annual basis to determine their continued eligibility for participation in PCAFC under this part. Reassessments will include consideration of whether the eligible veteran is unable to self-sustain in the community for purposes of the monthly stipend rate under § 71.40(c)(4)(i)(A). Reassessment may include a visit to the eligible veteran's home.


(b) Reassessments may occur more frequently than annually if a determination is made and documented by VA that more frequent reassessment is appropriate.


(c) Reassessments may occur on a less than annual basis if a determination is made and documented by VA that an annual reassessment is unnecessary.


(d) Failure of the eligible veteran or Family Caregiver to participate in any reassessment pursuant to this section will result in revocation pursuant to § 71.45, Revocation and Discharge of Family Caregivers.


(e)(1) If the eligible veteran meets the requirements of § 71.20(b) or (c) (*i.e.,* is a legacy participant or a legacy applicant), the eligible veteran and Family Caregiver will be reassessed by VA (in collaboration with the primary care team to the maximum extent practicable) within the five-year period beginning on October 1, 2020 to determine whether the eligible veteran meets the requirements of § 71.20(a). This reassessment may include a visit to the eligible veteran's home. If the eligible veteran meets the requirements of § 71.20(a), the reassessment will consider whether the eligible veteran is unable to self-sustain in the community for purposes of the monthly stipend rate under § 71.40(c)(4)(i)(A).


(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (e)(1) of this section, a reassessment will not be completed under paragraph (e)(1) if at some point before a reassessment is completed during the five-year period beginning on October 1, 2020 the individual no longer meets the requirements of § 71.20(b) or (c).



---

[N] [85 FR 46296, July 31, 2020, as amended at 86 FR 52618, Sept. 22, 2021; 87 FR 57608, Sept. 21, 2022]




