# ยง 457.208   Judicial review.

(a) *Right to judicial review.* Any State dissatisfied with the Administrator's final determination on approvability of plan material (ยง 457.203) or compliance with Federal requirements (ยง 457.204) has a right to judicial review. 


(b) *Petition for review.* (1) The State must file a petition for review with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the circuit in which the State is located, within 60 days after it is notified of the determination. 


(2) After the clerk of the court files a copy of the petition with the Administrator, the Administrator files in the court the record of the proceedings on which the determination was based. 


(c) *Court action.* (1) The court is bound by the Administrator's findings of fact, if they are supported by substantial evidence. 


(2) The court has jurisdiction to affirm the Administrator's decision, to set it aside in whole or in part, or, for good cause, to remand the case for additional evidence. 


(d) *Response to remand.* (1) If the court remands the case, the Administrator may make new or modified findings of fact and may modify his or her previous determination. 


(2) The Administrator certifies to the court the transcript and record of the further proceedings. 


(e) *Review by the Supreme Court.* The judgment of the appeals court is subject to review by the U.S. Supreme Court upon certiorari or certification, as provided in 28 U.S.C. 1254. 



---

[N] [65 FR 33622, May 24, 2000, as amended at 66 FR 2674, Jan. 11, 2001]




