# ยง 71.5   Boundary line between eastern and central zones.

(a) *Minnesota-Michigan-Wisconsin.* From the junction of the western boundary of the State of Michigan with the boundary between the United States and Canada northerly and easterly along the west line of Gogebic County to the west line of Ontonagon County; thence south along the west line of Ontonagon County to the north line of Gogebic County; thence southerly and easterly along the north line of Gogebic County to the west line of Iron County; thence north along the west line of Iron County to the north line of Iron County; thence east along the north line of Iron County to the east line of Iron County; thence south along the east line of Iron County to the north line of Dickinson County; thence east along the north line of Dickinson County to the east line of Dickinson County; thence south along the east line of Dickinson County to the north line of Menominee County; thence east along the north line of Menominee County to the east line of Menominee County; thence southerly and easterly along the east line of Menominee County to Lake Michigan; thence east to the western boundary of the State of Michigan; thence southerly and easterly along the western boundary of the State of Michigan to a point in the middle of Lake Michigan opposite the main channel of Green Bay; thence southerly along the western boundary of the State of Michigan to its junction with the southern boundary thereof and the northern boundary of the State of Indiana. 


(b) *Indiana-Illinois.* From the junction of the western boundary of the State of Michigan with the northern boundary of the State of Indiana easterly along the northern boundary of the State of Indiana to the east line of LaPorte County; thence southerly along the east line of LaPorte County to the north line of Starke County; thence east along the north line of Starke County to the west line of Marshall County; thence south along the west line of Marshall County; thence west along the north line of Pulaski County to the east line of Jasper County; thence south along the east line of Jasper County to the south line of Jasper County; thence west along the south lines of Jasper and Newton Counties to the western boundary of the State of Indiana; thence south along the western boundary of the State of Indiana to the north line of Gibson County; thence easterly and northerly along the north line of Gibson County to the west line of Pike County; thence south along the west line of Pike County to the north line of Warrick County; thence east along the north line of Warrick and Spencer Counties to the west line of Perry County; thence easterly and southerly along the north and east line of Perry County to the Indiana-Kentucky boundary.


(c) *Kentucky.* From the junction of the east line of Perry County, Ind., with the Indiana-Kentucky boundary easterly along that boundary to the west line of Meade County, Ky.; thence southeasterly and southwesterly along the west lines of Meade and Hardin Counties to the southwest corner of Hardin County; thence along the south lines of Hardin and Larue Counties to the northwest corner of Taylor County; thence southeasterly along the west (southwest) lines of Taylor County and northeasterly along the east (southeast) line of Taylor County to the west line of Casey County; and thence southerly along the west and south lines of Casey and Pulaski Counties to the intersection with the western boundary of Wayne County; and then south along the western boundary of Wayne County to the Kentucky-Tennessee boundary.


(d) *Tennessee.* From the junction of the west line of McCreary County, Ky., with the Kentucky-Tennessee boundary westerly along that boundary to the west line of Scott County, Tenn.; thence southerly along the west line of Scott County, the north and west lines of Morgan County, and the north line of Roane County to the north line of Rhea County; thence northwesterly along the north line of Rhea County; and thence southwesterly along the west lines of Rhea and Hamilton Counties to the Tennessee-Georgia boundary. 


(e) *Georgia-Alabama.* From the junction of the west line of Hamilton County, Tenn., with the Tennessee-Georgia boundary westerly along that boundary to its junction with the Alabama-Georgia boundary; thence southerly along that boundary and the Florida-Georgia boundary to the southwest corner of the State of Georgia. 


(f) *Florida.* From the southwest corner of the State of Georgia to the midpoint of the Apalachicola River on the downstream side of Jim Woodruff Dam; thence southerly along the middle of the main channel of the Apalachicola River to its intersection with the Jackson River; thence westerly along the center of the Jackson River to its intersection with the Intracoastal Waterway; thence westerly along the center of the Intracoastal Waterway to the west line of Gulf County; thence southerly along the west line of Gulf County to the Gulf of Mexico. 


(g) [Reserved] 


(h) *Municipalities on boundary line.* All municipalities located upon the zone boundary line described in this section are in the central standard time zone. 



---

[N] [Amdt. 71-11, 35 FR 12318, Aug. 1, 1970, as amended by Amdt. 71-12, 37 FR 11972, June 16, 1972; Amdt. 71-13, 38 FR 9229, Apr. 12, 1973; Amdt. 71-14, 38 FR 13725, May 25, 1973; Amdt. 77-13, 42 FR 56610, Oct. 27, 1977; Amdt. 91-17, 56 FR 52003, Oct. 17, 1991; 65 FR 50158, Aug. 17, 2000; 71 FR 3245, Jan. 20, 2006; 72 FR 6177, Feb. 9, 2007; 72 FR 54377, Sept. 25, 2007]




