# § 9401.102   Definitions.

For purposes of this part:


*CFPB Ethics Regulations* means the supplemental ethics standards set forth in this part.


*Control* means the possession, direct or indirect, of the power or authority to manage, direct, or oversee.


*Credit* has the meaning set forth in 12 U.S.C. 5481(7) and as further defined in regulations promulgated by the Bureau to implement that statute. A person may have credit without any outstanding balance owed.


*Dependent child* has the meaning set forth in 5 CFR 2634.105(d). It includes an employee's son, daughter, stepson, or stepdaughter if:


(1) Unmarried, under the age of 21, and living in the employee's household; or


(2) Claimed as a “dependent” on the employee's income tax return.


*Designated Agency Ethics Official (DAEO)* means the official within the Bureau that the Director has appointed to coordinate and manage the ethics program at the Bureau, under 5 CFR 2638.104(a). For purposes of this part, the term “DAEO” also includes the Alternate DAEO appointed under 5 CFR 2638.104(d), and a designee of the DAEO or Alternate DAEO unless a particular provision says an authority is reserved to the DAEO.


*Director* means the Director of the Bureau.


*Domestic partner* means a person with whom a Bureau employee:


(1) Has a close and committed personal relationship and both parties are at least 18 years of age, are each other's sole domestic partner and intend to remain in the relationship indefinitely, and neither is married to, in a civil union with, or partnered with any other spouse or domestic partner;


(2) Is not related by blood in a manner that would bar marriage under the laws of the jurisdiction in which the employee resides;


(3) Is in a financially interdependent relationship in which both agree to be responsible for each other's common welfare and share in financial obligations; and


(4) Has shared for at least six months the same regular and permanent residence in a committed relationship and both parties intend to do so indefinitely, or would maintain a common residence but for an assignment abroad or other employment-related, financial, or similar obstacle.


*Employee* means an employee of the Bureau, other than a special Government employee.


*Entity supervised by the Bureau* means a person that is subject to the Bureau's supervision authority pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5514(a)(1) or 5515(a) and in regulations promulgated thereunder, as identified on a list to be maintained by the Bureau.


*Indebted* or *indebtedness* means a legal obligation under which an individual or borrower received money or assets on credit, and currently owes payment.


*Indebted to an entity* means an obligation to make payments to an entity as a result of an indebtedness, whether originally made with that entity or with another entity. This includes without limitation, a servicer to whom payments are made.


*OGE Standards* mean the Standards of Ethical Conduct for Employees of the Executive Branch contained in 5 CFR part 2635.


*Participate* means personal and substantial participation and has the meaning set forth in 5 CFR 2635.402(b)(4). An employee participates when, for example, the employee makes a decision, gives approval or disapproval, renders advice, provides a recommendation, conducts an investigation or examination, or takes an official action in a particular matter, and such involvement is of significance to the matter. It requires more than official responsibility, knowledge, perfunctory involvement, or involvement on an administrative or peripheral issue.


*Particular matter* has the meaning set forth in 5 CFR 2635.402(b)(3). The term includes a matter that involves deliberation, decision, or action and is focused upon the interests of specific persons or a discrete and identifiable class of persons. It may include governmental action such as legislation, regulations, or policy-making that is narrowly focused on the interests of a discrete and identifiable class of persons.


*Particular matter involving specific parties* has the meaning set forth in 5 CFR 2641.201(h). Such a matter typically involves a specific proceeding affecting the legal rights of the parties or an isolatable transaction or related set of transactions between identified parties. The term includes without limitation, a contract, audit, enforcement action, examination, investigation, litigation proceeding, or request for a ruling.


*Person* has the same meaning set forth in 5 CFR 2635.102(k). It includes without limitation, an individual, corporation and subsidiaries it controls, company, association, firm, partnership, society, joint stock company, or any other organization or institution.


*Practice of law* means the provision of legal advice or services where there is a client relationship of trust or reliance. One is presumed to be practicing law when engaging in any of the following conduct on behalf of another:


(1) Preparing any legal document, including any deeds, mortgages, assignments, discharges, leases, trust instruments, or any other instruments intended to affect interests in real or personal property, wills, codicils, instruments intended to affect the disposition of property of decedents' estates, other instruments intended to affect or secure legal rights, and contracts except routine agreements incidental to a regular course of business;


(2) Preparing or expressing legal opinions;


(3) Appearing or acting as an attorney in any tribunal;


(4) Preparing any claims, demands or pleadings of any kind, or any written documents containing legal argument or interpretation of law, for filing in any court, administrative agency, or other tribunal;


(5) Providing advice or counsel as to how any of the activities described in paragraphs (1) through (4) of this definition might be done, or whether they were done, in accordance with applicable law; or


(6) Furnishing an attorney or attorneys, or other persons, to render the services described in paragraphs (1) through (5) of this definition.


*Security* means an interest in debt or equity instruments. The term includes without limitation, secured and unsecured bonds, debentures, notes, securitized assets, commercial papers, and preferred and common stock. The term encompasses both current and contingent ownership interests; a beneficial or legal interest derived from a trust; a right to acquire or dispose of any long or short position in debt or equity interests; interests convertible into debt or equity interests; and options, rights, warrants, puts, calls, straddles, derivatives, and other similar interests. It does not include deposits; credit union shares; a future interest created by someone other than the employee or the employee's spouse or dependent child; or a right as a beneficiary of an estate that has not been settled.


*Special Government employee* has the meaning set forth in 5 CFR 2635.102(l).


*Spouse* means an employee's husband or wife by lawful marriage, but does not include an employee's spouse if:


(1) The employee and the employee's spouse are separated;


(2) The employee and the employee's spouse live apart;


(3) There is an intention to end the marriage or separate permanently; and


(4) The employee has no control over the separated spouse's securities.


*Vested legal or beneficial interest* means a present right or title to property, which carries with it an existing right of alienation, even though the right to possession or enjoyment may be postponed to some uncertain time in the future. This includes a future interest when one has a right, defeasible or indefeasible, to immediate possession or enjoyment of the property, upon the ceasing of another's interest.



---

[N] [82 FR 35883, Aug. 2, 2017]




