# § 21.320   Awards for subsistence allowance and authorization of rehabilitation services.

Awards providing for payment of a subsistence allowance and authorization of services necessary for rehabilitation may be prepared when an IWRP (Individualized Written Rehabilitation Plan) or other plan has been completed and other requirements for entrance or reentrance into a rehabilitation program have been met.


(a) *Commencing date of subsistence allowance.* The commencing date of an award of subsistence allowance will be determined under the provisions of § 21.322.


(b) *Commencing date of authorization of training and rehabilitation services.* The commencing date for authorization of training and rehabilitation services is the same as the effective date for awards for subsistence allowance under provisions of § 21.322, except when: 


(1) The commencing date for authorization of a program of employment services is determined under provisions of § 21.326; 


(2) An earlier commencement date is established in the veteran's plan or the veteran is entitled to earlier induction under § 21.282;


(3) The veteran elects payment at the educational assistance allowance rate, in which case the commencing date of payment is determined under provisions applicable to commencement of payment under Chapter 30.


(c) *Ending date of subsistence allowance.* The ending date of an award for subsistence allowance will be the earliest of the following dates:


(1) The ending date provided in the veteran's IWRP or other plan; 


(2) The ending date of a period of enrollment as certified by a training or rehabilitation facility; 


(3) The ending date specified in § 21.324.


(d) *Ending date for training and rehabilitation services.* The ending date of training and rehabilitation services will be the same as the termination date for subsistence allowance under paragraph (c) of this section, except when: 


(1) The ending date for a period of employment services is determined under provisions of § 21.326;


(2) A later termination date is established in the veteran's plan; 


(3) A veteran has elected payment at the educational assistance rate paid under Chapter 30. The ending date of the award is determined under regulations applicable to termination of training under Chapter 30.



---

[N] [49 FR 40814, Oct. 18, 1984, as amended at 54 FR 4284, Jan. 30, 1989; 57 FR 57108, Dec. 3, 1992]




