# ยง 208.121   Definitions.

*Covered depository institution* means a state member bank that meets all of the following criteria:


(1) Has less than $5 billion in total consolidated assets as reported in its report of condition for the second calendar quarter of the preceding year, except that, during the calendar year 2021, a state member bank shall determine whether it meets the requirement in paragraph (1) of this section by using the lesser of its total consolidated assets as reported in its report of condition as of December 31, 2019, and its total consolidated assets as reported in its report of condition for the second calendar quarter of 2020. The relief provided under this paragraph (1) of this section does not apply to a state member bank if the Board determines that permitting the state member bank to determine its assets in accordance with that paragraph would not be commensurate with the risk profile of the state member bank. When making this determination, the Board will consider all relevant factors, including the extent of asset growth of the state member bank since December 31, 2019; the causes of such growth, including whether growth occurred as a result of mergers or acquisitions; whether such growth is likely to be temporary or permanent; whether the state member bank has become involved in any additional activities since December 31, 2019; the asset size of any parent companies; and the type of assets held by the state member bank. In making a determination pursuant to this paragraph (1), the Board will apply notice and response procedures in the same manner and to the same extent as the notice and response procedures in 12 CFR 263.202.


(2) Has no foreign offices, as defined in this section;


(3) Is not required to or has not elected to use 12 CFR part 217, subpart E, to calculate its risk-based capital requirements; and


(4) Is not a large institution or highly complex institution, as such terms are defined in 12 CFR 327.8, or treated as a large institution, as requested under 12 CFR 327.16(f).


*Foreign country* refers to one or more foreign nations, and includes the overseas territories, dependencies, and insular possessions of those nations and of the United States.


*Foreign office* means:


(1) A branch or consolidated subsidiary in a foreign country, unless the branch is located on a U.S. military facility;


(2) An international banking facility as such term is defined in 12 CFR 204.8;


(3) A majority-owned Edge Act or Agreement subsidiary including both its U.S. and its foreign offices; and


(4) For an institution chartered or headquartered in any U.S. state or the District of Columbia, a branch or consolidated subsidiary located in a U.S. territory or possession.


*Report of condition* means the FFIEC 031, FFIEC 041, or FFIEC 051 versions of the Consolidated Report of Condition and Income (Call Report) or the FFIEC 002 (Report of Assets and Liabilities of U.S. Branches and Agencies of Foreign Banks), as applicable, and as they may be amended or superseded from time to time in accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, 44 U.S.C. chapter 35.


*Total consolidated assets* means total assets as reported in a state member bank's report of condition.



---

[N] [Reg. H, 84 FR 29051, June 21, 2019, as amended at 85 FR 77360, Dec. 2, 2020]




