# § 207.100   Inland waterway from Delaware River to Chesapeake Bay, Del. and Md. (Chesapeake and Delaware Canal); use, administration, and navigation.

(a) *Applicability.* The regulations in this section are applicable to that part of the inland waterway from Delaware River to Chesapeake Bay, Del. and Md., between Reedy Point, Delaware River, and Old Town Point Wharf, Elk River.


(b) *Supervision.* The District Engineer, Corps of Engineers, Philadelphia, Pa., has administrative supervision over the waterway and is charged with the enforcement of these regulations. The District Engineer from time to time will prescribe rules governing the dimensions of vessels which may transit the waterway, and other special conditions and requirements which will govern the movement of vessels using the waterway. The District Engineer's representative is the Chesapeake City Resident Engineer. The Chesapeake City Resident Engineer through the dispatcher on duty will enforce these regulations and monitor traffic through the canal.


(c) *Safe navigation required.* Clearance for any vessel to enter or pass through any part of the waterway will be contingent on the vessel's having adequate personnel, machinery, and operative devices for safe navigation. In the event of question as to the ability of any vessel to navigate the waterway safely, a ruling will be made by the dispatcher. The owner, agent, master, pilot, or other person in charge of the vessel concerned may appeal the dispatcher's ruling to the District Engineer whose decision shall be final. A clearance by the dispatcher for a vessel's passage through the waterway shall not relieve the owners, agents, and operators of the vessel of full responsibility for its safe passage.


(d) *Radio equipment.* Requirements for radio equipment on vessels transiting the waterway are as described in rules governing traffic through the waterway issued by the District Engineer. Vessels not having the mandatory radio equipment will not be permitted to transit the canal.


(e) *Anchorage and wharfage facilities.* The anchorage basin at Chesapeake City and free wharfage facilities on the west side of the anchorage basin are available for small vessels only. These facilities are of limited capacity, and permission to occupy them for periods exceeding 24 hours must be obtained in advance from the dispatcher at Chesapeake City.


(f) *Projections from vessels.* No vessel carrying a deck load which overhangs or projects beyond the sides of the vessel will be permitted to enter or pass through the waterway. Vessels carrying rods, poles, or other gear extending above the top of the vessel's mast will be required to lower such equipment to a level with the top of the mast before entering the waterway.


(g) [Reserved]


(h) *Tows*—(1) *Integrated pusher-type tows.* The maximum overall length and extreme breadth of this type of tow which may transit the canal are as described in rules governing traffic through the waterway issued by the District Engineer.


(2) *All other types of tows.* All ships or tugs engaged in towing vessels not equipped with a rudder, whether light or loaded, shall use two towlines or a bridle on one towline. If the vessel in tow is equipped with a rudder, one towline without a bridle may be used. All towlines must be hauled as short as practicable for safe handling of the tows. No towboat will be permitted to enter the waterway with more than two loaded, or three light barges. Two or more barges or other vessels, not self-propelled, shall be towed abreast and not in tandem, using two towlines unless the towboat is made fast alongside the tow.


(i) [Reserved]


(j) *Traffic lights.* Traffic lights are located at Reedy Point and Old Town Point Wharf. These traffic lights are described in the rules governing traffic through the waterway issued by the District Engineer.


(k) *Drawbridges.* Operation of the Penn Central vertical lift bridge across the canal will be in accordance with regulations promulgated by the U.S. Coast Guard, § 117.235a *Chesapeake and Delaware Canal, Del.,* of this chapter.


(l) [Reserved]


(m) *Refuse and oil.* The depositing of trash, refuse, debris, oil, or other material in the waterway or upon the banks or right-of-way is prohibited. Violators are subject to penalties as prescribed by Federal law.


(n) *Damage to waterway property.* Damage to the waterway, lands, banks, bridges, jetties, piers, fences, buildings, trees, telephone lines, lighting structures, or any other property of the United States pertaining to the waterway is prohibited.


(o) *Fish and game.* The fish and game laws of the United States and of the States of Delaware and Maryland, within their respective bounds, will be enforced upon the waters and lands pertaining to the waterway owned by the United States.


(p) *Grounded, wrecked, or damaged vessels.* In the event a vessel is grounded or wrecked in the waterway or is damaged by accident or successive mechanical breakdown, the owner, agent, or operator shall take prompt action to prevent the vessel from becoming or remaining an obstruction to navigation, and such persons shall also respond to such instructions as may be issued by the District Engineer to prevent the vessel from becoming or remaining a menace to navigation. The lack of reasonable response from owner, agent, or operator may be deemed sufficient cause for the District Engineer to undertake repair or removal of the vessel as he may determine to be in the best interest to the Government.


(q)-(s) [Reserved]


(t) *Pilotage.* Any pilot who pilots in the canal shall comply with State laws or Coast Guard regulations and must be licensed for this waterway by the U.S. Coast Guard.


(u) *Vessels difficult to handle.* Vessels which are observed by the pilot or master in charge, to be difficult to handle, or which are known to have handled badly on previous trips, must transit the canal during daylight hours and must have tug assistance. Such vessels must obtain permission from the dispatcher to enter the canal and must be provided with the number of tugs sufficient to afford safe passage. Agents must make their own arrangements for tug assistance. Such eastbound vessels must clear Reedy Point Bridge, and such westbound vessels the Chesapeake City Bridge, before dark.



---

[N] [37 FR 9670, May 16, 1972, as amended at 42 FR 57961, Nov. 7, 1977; 56 FR 13765, Apr. 4, 1991]




