# ยง 178.338-14   Gauging devices.

(a) *Liquid level gauging devices.* (1) Unless a cargo tank is intended to be filled by weight, it must be equipped with one or more gauging devices, which accurately indicate the maximum permitted liquid level at the loading pressure, in order to provide a minimum of two percent outage below the inlet of the pressure control valve or pressure relief valve at the condition of incipient opening of that valve. A fixed-length dip tube, a fixed trycock line, or a differential pressure liquid level gauge must be used as the primary control for filling. Other gauging devices, except gauge glasses, may be used, but not as the primary control for filling.


(2) The design pressure of each liquid level gauging device must be at least that of the tank.


(3) If a fixed length dip tube or trycock line gauging device is used, it must consist of a pipe or tube of small diameter equipped with a valve at or near the jacket and extending into the cargo tank to a specified filling height. The fixed height at which the tube ends in the cargo tank must be such that the device will function when the liquid reaches the maximum level permitted in loading.


(4) The liquid level gauging device used as a primary control for filling must be designed and installed to accurately indicate the maximum filling level at the point midway of the tank both longitudinally and laterally.


(b) *Pressure gauges.* Each cargo tank must be provided with a suitable pressure gauge indicating the lading pressure and located on the front of the jacket so it can be read by the driver in the rear view mirror. Each gauge must have a reference mark at the cargo tank design pressure or the set pressure of the pressure relief valve or pressure control valve, whichever is lowest.


(c) *Orifices.* All openings for dip tube gauging devices and pressure gauges in flammable cryogenic liquid service must be restricted at or inside the jacket by orifices no larger than 0.060-inch diameter. Trycock lines, if provided, may not be greater than 
1/2-inch nominal pipe size.



---

[N] [Amdt. 178-77, 48 FR 27706, June 16, 1983, as amended at 49 FR 24317, June 12, 1984]




