# § 1090.1845   Procedures related to meeting performance-based measurement and statistical quality control for test methods.

(a) *General provisions.* (1) An auditor must conduct the procedures specified in this section for a gasoline manufacturer.


(2) An auditor performing the procedures specified in this section must meet the laboratory experience requirements specified in § 1090.55(b)(2).


(3) In cases where the auditor employs, contracts, or subcontracts an external specialist, all the requirements in § 1090.55 apply to the external specialist. The auditor is responsible for overseeing the work of the specialist, consistent with applicable professional standards specified in § 1090.1800.


(4) In the case of quality control testing at a third-party laboratory, the auditor may perform a single attestation engagement on the third-party laboratory for multiple gasoline manufacturers if the auditor directly reviewed the information from the third-party laboratory. A third-party laboratory may also arrange for an auditor to perform a single attestation engagement on the third-party laboratory and make that available to gasoline manufacturers that have testing performed by the third-party laboratory.


(b) *Non-referee method qualification review.* For each test method used to measure a parameter for gasoline as specified in a report submitted under subpart J of this part that is not one of the referee procedures listed in § 1090.1360(d), the auditor must review the following:


(1) Obtain supporting documentation showing that the laboratory has qualified the test method by meeting the precision and accuracy criteria specified under § 1090.1365.


(2) Report in the attestation report a list of the alternative methods used.


(3) Confirm that the gasoline manufacturer supplied the supporting documentation for each test method specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section and report any exceptions.


(4) If an auditor has previously reviewed supporting documentation under this paragraph (b) for an alternative method at the facility, the auditor does not have to review the supporting document again.


(c) *Reference installation review.* For each reference installation used by the gasoline manufacturer during the compliance period, the auditor must review the following:


(1) Obtain supporting documentation demonstrating that the reference installation followed the qualification procedures specified in § 1090.1370(c)(1) and (2) and the quality control procedures specified in § 1090.1370(c)(3).


(2) Confirm that the facility completed the qualification procedures and report any exceptions.


(d) *Instrument control review.* For each test instrument used to test gasoline parameters for batches selected as part of a representative sample under § 1090.1810, the auditor must review whether test instruments were in control as follows:


(1) Obtain a listing from the laboratory of the instruments and period when the instruments were used to measure gasoline parameters during the compliance period for batches selected as part of the representative sample under § 1090.1810.


(2) Obtain statistical quality assurance data and control charts demonstrating ongoing quality testing to meet the accuracy and precision requirements specified in § 1090.1375 or 40 CFR 80.47, as applicable.


(3) Confirm that the facility performed statistical quality assurance monitoring of its instruments under § 1090.1375 and report any exceptions.


(4) Report as a finding in the attestation report the instrument lists obtained under paragraph (d)(1) of this section and the compliance period when the instrument control review was completed.




