# § 17.158   Limitations on assistance.

(a) *General.* An eligible person will not be provided adaptive equipment for more than two automobiles or other conveyances at any one time or during any four-year period except when, due to circumstances beyond the control of such person, one of the automobiles or other conveyances for which adaptive equipment was provided during the applicable four-year period is no longer available for the use of such person.


(1) Circumstances beyond the control of the eligible person are those where the automobile or other conveyance was lost due to fire, theft, accident, or court action; when repairs are so costly as to be prohibitive; or a different automobile or other conveyance is required due to a change in the eligible person's physical condition.


(2) For purposes of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, an eligible person shall be deemed to have access to and use of an automobile or other conveyance for which the Department of Veterans Affairs has provided adaptive equipment if that eligible person has sold, given or transferred the automobile or other conveyance to a spouse, family member or other person residing in the same household as the eligible person; or to a business owned by the eligible person, spouse, family member or other person residing in the same household as the eligible person.


(b) *Basis for payment or reimbursement.* VA will reimburse or pay for adaptive equipment that VA determines is needed in accordance with this section based on the information submitted and the VA Adaptive Equipment Schedule for Automobiles and Other Conveyances (Schedule). In addition to paying or reimbursing for specific types of adaptive equipment listed in the Schedule, VA will pay, or reimburse for roadside service, and waste disposal fees consistent with the Schedule. Determination of payment or reimbursement rates are based on the Schedule in effect on the date installation, reinstallation, replacement, or repair is complete. Schedule labor rates are classified as “In Shop (low technology)” or “High Technology.” High Technology means labor performed on or modification of adaptive equipment devices or systems that are capable of controlling vehicle functions or driving controls, and operate with a designed logic system, or interface or integrate with an electronic system of the vehicle. In Shop (low technology) means labor performed on or modification of adaptive equipment devices that do not meet the definition of High Technology.


(1) Payments made for adaptive equipment that is authorized under this section shall constitute payment in full and shall extinguish the eligible person's liability to the registered provider. The registered provider may not impose any additional charge on the eligible person for any adaptive equipment that is authorized under this section and for which payment is made by VA.


(2) This paragraph sets forth what must be submitted to VA in order for VA to reimburse or pay for adaptive equipment.


(i) Reimbursement when services performed by registered providers. VA will reimburse eligible persons identified in 38 CFR 17.156(a) who have purchased adaptive equipment (*e.g.,* installations, repairs, reinstallations, replacements) from registered providers. The eligible person must submit to VA a completed VA Form 10-1394, an itemized estimate, and provide VA with either a final itemized: (1) invoice, (2) paid receipt, or (3) bill of sale for the purchase.


(ii) Reimbursement when services performed by unregistered providers. VA will reimburse eligible persons identified in 38 CFR 17.156(a) who have purchased adaptive equipment (*e.g.,* installations, repairs, reinstallations, replacements) from unregistered providers. The eligible person must submit to VA a completed VA Form 10-1394 and a final itemized (1) invoice, (2) paid receipt, or (3) bill of sale for the purchase.


(iii) Payments to registered providers for adaptive equipment. VA will pay registered providers for adaptive equipment (*e.g.,* installations, repairs, reinstallations, replacements) furnished to eligible persons identified in 38 CFR 17.156(a). The following must be submitted before VA will pay. The eligible person or the registered provider must sign and submit to VA a completed VA Form 10-1394 and an itemized estimate prior to the completion of work. The eligible person or registered provider must provide VA with a final itemized invoice after the work is completed.


(iv) In the case of any installation, repair or replacement of adaptive equipment performed outside of the United States where an invoice, estimate, or bill of sale is calculated in a foreign currency, an application submitted under this paragraph must include the conversion rate from the foreign currency to U.S. dollars, and calculation of the invoice, estimate, or bill of sale amount in U.S. dollars.


(3) VA will reimburse or pay labor costs as follows:


(i) For any labor costs associated with the installation of adaptive equipment by a registered provider, VA will reimburse or pay the lesser of:


(A) The relevant Schedule hourly labor rate, per paragraph (b) of this section, multiplied by the number of hours listed by the registered provider;


(B) The labor costs included in the itemized estimate; or


(C) The hourly labor rate provided by the registered provider in the final itemized invoice multiplied by the number of hours listed by the registered provider.


(ii) VA does not reimburse or pay labor costs for pre-installed (*i.e.,* original equipment manufacturer) equipment.


(iii) VA does not reimburse or pay labor costs of unregistered providers.


(4) New adaptive equipment. VA will reimburse an eligible person who meets the requirements of (b)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section, or pay a registered provider who meets the requirements of (b)(2)(iii) of this section for new adaptive equipment (including equipment that has been installed or used for one year or less from the date of manufacture listed in the Schedule) as follows:


(i) VA will pay the lesser of the amount for the new adaptive equipment listed in either a final itemized: (1) invoice, (2) paid receipt, or (3) bill of sale for the purchase; or (4) the amount listed in the Schedule.


(ii) VA will reimburse or pay any labor costs consistent with paragraph (b)(3) of this section.


(5) Used adaptive equipment. For used adaptive equipment listed in the Schedule that is more than one (1) year old from the date of manufacture:


(i) VA will depreciate it by twenty (20%) percent per year from the time the equipment was pre-installed or installed as new on an automobile or other conveyance to the time of its reinstallation for which reimbursement or payment is being sought for a period up to five (5) years. VA will reimburse an eligible person, who meets the requirements of (b)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section, or pay a registered provider who meets the requirements of (b)(2)(iii) of this section the lesser of the amount of the adaptive equipment listed in the final itemized invoice, paid receipt, or bill of sale for the purchase or the amount listed in the Schedule reduced by twenty (20%) percent for each year from the time the equipment was pre-installed or installed on the automobile or other conveyance for a period up to five (5) years.


(ii) VA will reimburse or pay any labor costs consistent with paragraph (b)(3) of this section, but will not reimburse or pay labor costs for used equipment that is more than five (5) years old from the date of manufacture.


(6) Unlisted adaptive equipment. For adaptive equipment not listed in the Schedule but meeting the definition of adaptive equipment in 38 CFR 17.157, VA will reimburse an eligible person who meets the requirements of (b)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section, or pay a registered provider who meets the requirements of (b)(2)(iii) of this section:


(i) the lesser of the cost of the adaptive equipment when equal to or less than what VA has paid for a similar item in the past or, when available, the commercially available price for a similar item. If the price of a similar commercially available item is not available, or VA has not previously paid for a similar item, VA will pay or reimburse the billed charges.


(ii) VA will reimburse or pay any labor costs consistent with paragraph (b)(3) of this section.


(7) VA will establish the Schedule on July 17, 2024 based on the most recent available data and each fiscal year thereafter, and publish that Schedule on a publicly accessible page on the *www.prosthetics.va.gov* website. VA will increase the reimbursement amounts in the Schedule using the indices for two expenditure categories of the Consumer Price Index (CPI) for All Urban Consumers. The index for the expenditure category for “motor vehicle parts and equipment” will be used to calculate the increase in the reimbursement amounts for adaptive equipment on the Schedule, and the index for “motor vehicle maintenance and repair” will be used to calculate the increase in the reimbursement amounts for labor. Such increases to the Schedule for adaptive equipment and labor will be equal to the percentage by which the respective index increased during the 12-month period ending with the last month for which CPI data is available. In the event that such index does not increase during such period, there will be no change to the Schedule for the reimbursement amounts for which the index is used to calculate increases. The amounts for the new fiscal year will be rounded up to the whole dollar amount.


(c) *Repair of used adaptive equipment.* Reimbursement or payment for a repair to an item of used adaptive equipment may be provided for adaptive equipment installed on an automobile or other conveyance that meets the limitations of paragraph (a) of this section. VA will pay or reimburse labor costs associated with the repairs in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section.


(1) For repairs to used adaptive equipment, VA will reimburse the eligible person meeting the requirements of (b)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section as follows: the lesser of the amount of the adaptive equipment listed in either a final itemized: (1) invoice, (2) paid receipt, or (3) bill of sale for the purchase.


(2) For repairs to used adaptive equipment, VA will reimburse a registered provider meeting the requirements of (b)(2)(iii) of this section as follows: the lesser of the amount of the adaptive equipment listed in the final itemized (1) invoice, (2) paid receipt, or (3) bill of sale for the purchase.



---

[N] [89 FR 51233, June 17, 2024]










