# § 54.15-10   Safety and relief valves (modifies UG-126).

(a) All safety and relief valves for use on pressure vessels or piping systems must be designed to meet the protection and service requirements for which they are intended and must be set to relieve at a pressure which does not exceed the “maximum allowable working pressure” of the pressure vessel or piping system. Relief valves are not required to have huddling chambers for other than steam service. In addition, safety valves used on vessels in which steam is generated must meet the standards in § 52.01-120 of this subchapter except § 52.01-120(a)(9). For steam service below 206 kPa (30 psig), bodies of safety valves may be made of cast iron. Safety relief valves used in liquefied compressed gas service must meet the standards in subpart 162.017 or 162.018 in subchapter Q of this chapter as appropriate.


(b) Pilot-valve control or other indirect operation of safety valves is not permitted unless the design is such that the main unloading valve will open automatically at not over the set pressure and will discharge its full rated capacity if some essential part of the pilot or auxiliary device should fail. All other safety and relief valves shall be of the direct spring-loaded type.


(c) Safety and relief valves for steam or air service must be provided with a substantial lifting device so that the disk can be lifted from its seat when the pressure in the vessel is 75 percent of that at which the valve is set to blow.


(d) Safety and relief valves for service other than steam and air need not be provided with a lifting device although a lifting device is desirable if the vapors are such that their release will not create a hazard.


(e) If the design of a safety or relief valve is such that liquid can collect on the discharge side of the disk, the valve must be equipped with a drain at the lowest point where liquid can collect (for installation, see UG-134 of Section VIII of the ASME BPVC (incorporated by reference; see § 54.01-1)).


(f) Cast iron may be employed in the construction of relief valves for pressures not exceeding 125 pounds per square inch and temperatures not exceeding 450  °F. Seats or disks of cast iron are prohibited.


(g) The spring in a relief valve in service for pressures up to and including 250 pounds per square inch must not be reset for any pressure more than 10 percent above or 10 percent below that for which the relief valve is marked. For higher pressures, the spring must not be reset for any pressure more than 5 percent above or 5 percent below that for which the relief valve is marked.


(h) The rated relieving capacity of safety and relief valves for use on pressure vessels must be based on actual flow test data and the capacity must be certified by the manufacturer in accordance with one of the following:


(1) 120 percent of the valve set pressure for valves rated in accordance with CGA S-1.2 (incorporated by reference; see § 54.01-1).


(2) 110 percent of the valve set pressure for valves rated in accordance with UG-131 of Section VIII of the ASME BPVC.


(3) 103 percent of the valve set pressure for steam in accordance with PG-69 of Section VIII of the ASME BPVC.



---

[N] [CGFR 68-82, 33 FR 18828, Dec. 18, 1968, as amended by CGD 81-79, 50 FR 9436, Mar. 8, 1985; USCG-2003-16630, 73 FR 65170, Oct. 31, 2008]




