# § 63.344   Performance test requirements and test methods.

(a) *Performance test requirements.* Performance tests shall be conducted using the test methods and procedures in this section. Performance tests shall be conducted under such conditions as the Administrator specifies to the owner or operator based on representative performance of the affected source for the period being tested. Upon request, the owner or operator shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests. Performance test results shall be documented in complete test reports that contain the information required by paragraphs (a)(1) through (9) of this section. The test plan to be followed shall be made available to the Administrator prior to the testing, if requested.


(1) A brief process description;


(2) Sampling location description(s);


(3) A description of sampling and analytical procedures and any modifications to standard procedures;


(4) Test results;


(5) Quality assurance procedures and results;


(6) Records of operating conditions during the test, preparation of standards, and calibration procedures;


(7) Raw data sheets for field sampling and field and laboratory analyses;


(8) Documentation of calculations; and


(9) Any other information required by the test method.


(b)(1) If the owner or operator of an affected source conducts performance testing at startup to obtain an operating permit in the State in which the affected source is located, the results of such testing may be used to demonstrate compliance with this subpart if:


(i) The test methods and procedures identified in paragraph (c) of this section were used during the performance test;


(ii) The performance test was conducted under representative operating conditions for the source;


(iii) The performance test report contains the elements required by paragraph (a) of this section; 


(iv) The owner or operator of the affected source for which the performance test was conducted has sufficient data to establish the operating parameter value(s) that correspond to compliance with the standards, as required for continuous compliance monitoring under § 63.343(c);


(v) The performance test was conducted after January 25, 1995;


(vi) As of September 19, 2012 the source was using the same emissions controls that were used during the compliance test;


(vii) As of September 19, 2012, the source was operating under conditions that are representative of the conditions under which the source was operating during the compliance test; and


(viii) Based on approval from the permitting authority.


(2) [Reserved]


(c) *Test methods.* Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart and required by § 63.343(b) to conduct an initial performance test shall use the test methods identified in this section to demonstrate compliance with the standards in § 63.342.


(1) Method 306 or Method 306A, “Determination of Chromium Emissions From Decorative and Hard Chromium Electroplating and Anodizing Operations,” appendix A of this part shall be used to determine the chromium concentration from hard or decorative chromium electroplating tanks or chromium anodizing tanks. The sampling time and sample volume for each run of Methods 306 and 306A, appendix A of this part shall be at least 120 minutes and 1.70 dscm (60 dscf), respectively. Methods 306 and 306A, appendix A of this part allow the measurement of either total chromium or hexavalent chromium emissions. For the purposes of this standard, sources using chromic acid baths must demonstrate compliance with the emission limits of § 63.342 by measuring the total chromium.


(2) The California Air Resources Board (CARB) Method 425 (which is available by contacting the California Air Resources Board, 1102 Q Street, Sacramento, California 95814) may be used to determine the chromium concentration from hard and decorative chromium electroplating tanks and chromium anodizing tanks if the following conditions are met:


(i) If a colorimetric analysis method is used, the sampling time and volume shall be sufficient to result in 33 to 66 micrograms of catch in the sampling train.


(ii) If Atomic Absorption Graphite Furnace (AAGF) or Ion Chromatography with a Post-column Reactor (ICPCR) analyses were used, the sampling time and volume should be sufficient to result in a sample catch that is 5 to 10 times the minimum detection limit of the analytical method (i.e., 1.0 microgram per liter of sample for AAGF and 0.5 microgram per liter of sample for ICPCR).


(iii) In the case of either paragraph (c)(2) (i) or (ii) of this section, a minimum of 3 separate runs must be conducted. The other requirements of § 63.7 that apply to affected sources, as indicated in Table 1 of this subpart, must also be met.


(3) Method 306B, “Surface Tension Measurement and Recordkeeping for Tanks Used at Decorative Chromium Electroplating and Anodizing Facilities,” appendix A of this part shall be used to measure the surface tension of electroplating and anodizing baths.


(4) Alternate test methods may also be used if the method has been validated using Method 301, appendix A of this part and if approved by the Administrator. Procedures for requesting and obtaining approval are contained in § 63.7(f).


(5) The South Coast Air Quality Management District (SCAQMD) Method 205.1 (which is available by contacting the South Coast AQMD, 21865 Copley Dr, Diamond Bar, CA 91765) may be used to determine the total chromium concentration from hard and decorative chromium electroplating tanks and chromium anodizing tanks.


(d) *Establishing site-specific operating parameter values.* (1) Each owner or operator required to establish site-specific operating parameters shall follow the procedures in this section.


(2) All monitoring equipment shall be installed such that representative measurements of emissions or process parameters from the affected source are obtained. For monitoring equipment purchased from a vendor, verification of the operational status of the monitoring equipment shall include execution of the manufacturer's written specifications or recommendations for installation, operation, and calibration of the system.


(i) Specifications for differential pressure measurement devices used to measure velocity pressure shall be in accordance with section 2.2 of Method 2 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A).


(ii) Specification for differential pressure measurement devices used to measure pressure drop across a control system shall be in accordance with manufacturer's accuracy specifications.


(3) The surface tension of electroplating and anodizing baths shall be measured using Method 306B, “Surface Tension Measurement and Recordkeeping for Tanks used at Decorative Chromium Electroplating and Anodizing Facilities,” appendix A of this part. This method should also be followed when wetting agent type or combination wetting agent/foam blanket type fume suppressants are used to control chromium emissions from a hard chromium electroplating tank and surface tension measurement is conducted to demonstrate continuous compliance.


(4) The owner or operator of a source required to measure the velocity pressure at the inlet to an add-on air pollution control device in accordance with § 63.343(c)(2), shall establish the site-specific velocity pressure as follows:


(i) Locate a velocity traverse port in a section of straight duct that connects the hooding on the plating tank or tanks with the control device. The port shall be located as close to the control system as possible, and shall be placed a minimum of 2 duct diameters downstream and 0.5 diameter upstream of any flow disturbance such as a bend, expansion, or contraction (see Method 1, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A). If 2.5 diameters of straight duct work does not exist, locate the port 0.8 of the duct diameter downstream and 0.2 of the duct diameter upstream from any flow disturbance.


(ii) A 12-point velocity traverse of the duct to the control device shall be conducted along a single axis according to Method 2 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A) using an S-type pitot tube; measurement of the barometric pressure and duct temperature at each traverse point is not required, but is suggested. Mark the S-type pitot tube as specified in Method 1 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A) with 12 points. Measure the velocity pressure (Δ p) values for the velocity points and record. Determine the square root of the individual velocity point Δ p values and average. The point with the square root value that comes closest to the average square root value is the point of average velocity. The Δ p value measured for this point during the performance test will be used as the reference for future monitoring.


(5) The owner or operator of a source required to measure the pressure drop across the add-on air pollution control device in accordance with § 63.343(c) (1) through (4) may establish the pressure drop in accordance with the following guidelines:


(i) Pressure taps shall be installed at any of the following locations:


(A) At the inlet and outlet of the control system. The inlet tap should be installed in the ductwork just prior to the control device and the corresponding outlet pressure tap should be installed on the outlet side of the control device prior to the blower or on the downstream side of the blower;


(B) On each side of the packed bed within the control system or on each side of each mesh pad within the control system; or


(C) On the front side of the first mesh pad and back side of the last mesh pad within the control system.


(ii) Pressure taps shall be sited at locations that are:


(A) Free from pluggage as possible and away from any flow disturbances such as cyclonic demisters.


(B) Situated such that no air infiltration at measurement site will occur that could bias the measurement.


(iii) Pressure taps shall be constructed of either polyethylene, polybutylene, or other nonreactive materials.


(iv) Nonreactive plastic tubing shall be used to connect the pressure taps to the device used to measure pressure drop.


(v) Any of the following pressure gauges can be used to monitor pressure drop: a magnehelic gauge, an inclined manometer, or a “U” tube manometer.


(vi) Prior to connecting any pressure lines to the pressure gauge(s), each gauge should be zeroed. No calibration of the pressure gauges is required.


(e) *Special compliance provisions for multiple sources controlled by a common add-on air pollution control device.* (1) This section identifies procedures for measuring the outlet chromium concentration from an add-on air pollution control device that is used to control multiple sources that may or may not include sources not affected by this subpart.


(2) When multiple affected sources performing the same type of operation (e.g., all are performing hard chromium electroplating), and subject to the same emission limitation, are controlled with an add-on air pollution control device that is not controlling emissions from any other type of affected operation or from any nonaffected sources, the applicable emission limitation identified in § 63.342 must be met at the outlet of the add-on air pollution control device.


(3) When multiple affected sources performing the same type of operation and subject to the same emission limitation are controlled with a common add-on air pollution control device that is also controlling emissions from sources not affected by these standards, the following procedures should be followed to determine compliance with the applicable emission limitation in § 63.342:


(i) Calculate the cross-sectional area of each inlet duct (i.e., uptakes from each hood) including those not affected by the standard.


(ii) Determine the total sample time per test run by dividing the total inlet area from all tanks connected to the control system by the total inlet area for all ducts associated with affected sources, and then multiply this number by 2 hours. The calculated time is the minimum sample time required per test run.


(iii) Perform Method 306 or 306A testing and calculate an outlet mass emission rate.


(iv) Determine the total ventilation rate from the affected sources (VR_inlet_) by using equation 1:


(v) Establish the allowable mass emission rate of the system (AMR_sys_) in milligrams of total chromium per hour (mg/hr) using equation 2:


(4) When multiple affected sources performing different types of operations (e.g., hard chromium electroplating, decorative chromium electroplating, or chromium anodizing) are controlled by a common add-on air pollution control device that may or may not also be controlling emissions from sources not affected by these standards, or if the affected sources controlled by the common add-on air pollution control device perform the same operation but are subject to different emission limitations (e.g., because one is a new hard chromium plating tank and one is an existing small, hard chromium plating tank), the following procedures should be followed to determine compliance with the applicable emission limitation in § 63.342:


(i) Follow the steps outlined in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) through (e)(3)(iii) of this section.


(ii) Determine the total ventilation rate for each type of affected source (VR_inlet_,a) using equation 3:


(iii) Establish the allowable mass emission rate in mg/hr for each type of affected source that is controlled by the add-on air pollution control device using equation 4, 5, 6, or 7 as appropriate:


(iv) Establish the allowable mass emission rate of the system (AMR_sys_) in milligrams of total chromium per hour (mg/hr) using equation 8, including each type of affected source as appropriate:


The allowable mass emission rate calculated from equation 8 should be equal to or more than the outlet three-run average mass emission rate determined from Method 306 or 306A testing in order for the source to be in compliance with the standards.


(5) Each owner or operator that uses the special compliance provisions of this paragraph to demonstrate compliance with the emission limitations of § 63.342 shall submit the measurements and calculations to support these compliance methods with the notification of compliance status required by § 63.347(e).


(6) Each owner or operator that uses the special compliance provisions of this section to demonstrate compliance with the emission limitations of § 63.342 shall repeat these procedures if a tank is added or removed from the control system regardless of whether that tank is a nonaffected source. If the new nonaffected tank replaces an existing nonaffected tank of the same size and is connected to the control system through the same size inlet duct then this procedure does not have to be repeated.


(f) *Compliance provisions for the mass rate emission standard for enclosed hard chromium electroplating tanks.* (1) This section identifies procedures for calculating the maximum allowable mass emission rate for owners or operators of affected sources who choose to meet the mass emission rate standard in § 63.342(c)(2)(iv) or (v).


(i)(A) The owner or operator of an enclosed hard chromium electroplating tank that is an existing affected source and is located at a large hard chromium electroplating facility who chooses to meet the mass emission rate standard in § 63.342(c)(2)(iv) shall determine compliance by not allowing the mass rate of total chromium in the exhaust gas stream discharged to the atmosphere to exceed the maximum allowable mass emission rate calculated using equation 9:


(B) Compliance with the alternative mass emission limit is demonstrated if the three-run average mass emission rate determined from Method 306 testing is less than or equal to the maximum allowable mass emission rate calculated from equation 9.


(ii)(A) The owner or operator of an enclosed hard chromium electroplating tank that is an existing affected source located at a small hard chromium electroplating facility who chooses to meet the mass emission rate standard in § 63.342(c)(2)(v) shall determine compliance by not allowing the mass rate of total chromium in the exhaust gas stream discharged to the atmosphere to exceed the maximum allowable mass emission rate calculated using equation 10:


(B) Compliance with the alternative mass emission limit is demonstrated if the three-run average mass emission rate determined from testing using Method 306 of appendix A to part 63 is less than or equal to the maximum allowable mass emission rate calculated from equation 10.


(iii)(A) The owner or operator of an enclosed hard chromium electroplating tank that is a new source who chooses to meet the mass emission rate standard in § 63.342(c)(2)(vii) shall determine compliance by not allowing the mass rate of total chromium in the exhaust gas stream discharged to the atmosphere to exceed the maximum allowable mass emission rate calculated using equation 11:


(B) Compliance with the alternative mass emission limit is demonstrated if the three-run average mass emission rate determined from testing using Method 306 or 306A of appendix A to part 63 is less than or equal to the maximum allowable mass emission rate calculated from equation 11.



---

[N] [60 FR 4963, Jan. 25, 1995, as amended at 61 FR 27787, June 3, 1996; 69 FR 42896, July 19, 2004; 77 FR 58246, Sept. 19, 2012; 79 FR 11283, Feb. 27, 2014]




