# § 447.272   Inpatient services: Application of upper payment limits.

(a) *Scope.* This section applies to rates set by the agency to pay for inpatient services furnished by hospitals, NFs, and ICFs/IID within one of the following categories:


(1) State government-owned or operated facilities (that is, all facilities that are either owned or operated by the State).


(2) Non-State government-owned or operated facilities (that is, all government facilities that are neither owned nor operated by the State).


(3) Privately-owned and operated facilities.


(b) *General rules.* (1) Upper payment limit refers to a reasonable estimate of the amount that would be paid for the services furnished by the group of facilities under Medicare payment principles in subchapter B of this chapter.


(2) Except as provided for in paragraph (c) of this section, aggregate Medicaid payments to a group of facilities within one of the categories described in paragraph (a) of this section may not exceed the upper payment limit described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.


(c) *Exceptions*—(1) *Indian Health Services and tribal facilities.* The limitation in paragraph (b) of this section does not apply to Indian Health Services facilities and tribal facilities that are funded through the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (Pub. L. 93-638).


(2) *Disproportionate share hospitals.* The limitation in paragraph (b) of this section does not apply to payment adjustments made under section 1923 of the Act that are made under a State plan to hospitals found to serve a disproportionate number of low-income patients with special needs as provided in section 1902(a)(13)(A)(iv) of the Act. Disproportionate share hospital (DSH) payments are subject to the following limits:


(i) The aggregate DSH limit using the Federal share of the DSH limit under section 1923(f) of the Act.


(ii) The hospital-specific DSH limit in section 1923(g) of the Act.


(iii) The aggregate DSH limit for institutions for mental disease (IMDs) under section 1923(h) of the Act.


(d) *Compliance dates.* Except as permitted under paragraph (e) of this section, a State must comply with the upper payment limit described in paragraph (b) of this section by one of the following dates:


(1) For non-State government owned or operated hospitals,—March 19, 2002.


(2) For all other facilities—March 13, 2001. 



---

[N] [66 FR 3175, Jan. 12, 2001, as amended at 66 FR 46399, Sept. 5, 2001; 67 FR 2610, Jan. 18, 2002; 72 FR 29834, May 29, 2007; 75 FR 73975, Nov. 30, 2010; 77 FR 31512, May 29, 2012]




