# § 740.7   Computers (APP).

(a) *Scope*—(1) *Commodities.* License Exception APP authorizes exports, reexports and transfers (in-country) of computers, including “electronic assemblies” and specially designed components therefor controlled by ECCN 4A003 exported or reexported separately or as part of a system for consumption in Computer Tier countries as provided by this section. When evaluating your computer to determine License Exception APP eligibility, use the APP parameter to the exclusion of other technical parameters in ECCN 4A003.


(2) *Technology and software.* License Exception APP authorizes exports of technology and software controlled by ECCNs 4D001 and 4E001 specially designed or modified for the “development,” “production,” or “use” of computers, including “electronic assemblies” and specially designed components therefor classified in ECCN 4A003 to Computer Tier countries as provided by this section.


(b) *Restrictions.* (1) Related equipment controlled under ECCN 4A003.g, z.2, or z.4 may not be exported or reexported under this license exception when exported or reexported separately from eligible computers authorized under this license exception.


(2) *Access and release restrictions.* (i) [Reserved]


(ii) *Technology and source code.* Technology and source code eligible for License Exception APP may not be released to nationals of Cuba, Iran, North Korea, or Syria.


(3) Computers and software eligible for License Exception APP may not be reexported or transferred (in country) without prior authorization from BIS, *i.e.,* a license, a permissive reexport, another License Exception, or “No License Required”. This restriction must be conveyed to the consignee, via the Destination Control Statement, see § 758.6 of the EAR. Additionally, the end-use and end-user restrictions in paragraph (b)(5) of this section must be conveyed to any consignee in Computer Tier 3.


(4) You may not use this License Exception to export or reexport items that you know will be used to enhance the APP beyond the eligibility limit allowed to your country of destination.


(5) License Exception APP does not authorize exports, reexports and transfers (in-country) for nuclear, chemical, biological, or missile end-users and end-uses subject to license requirements under §§ 744.2, 744.3, 744.4, and 744.5 of the EAR. Such exports, reexports and transfers (in-country) will continue to require a license and will be considered on a case-by-case basis. Reexports and transfers (in-country) to these end-users and end-uses in eligible countries are strictly prohibited without prior authorization.


(6) Foreign nationals in an expired visa status are not eligible to receive deemed exports of technology or source code under this License Exception. It is the responsibility of the exporter to ensure that, in the case of deemed exports, the foreign national maintains a valid U.S. visa, if required to hold a visa from the United States.


(c) *Computer Tier 1 destinations*—(1) *Eligible destinations.* The destinations that are eligible to receive exports and reexports under paragraph (c) of this section include: Albania, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Aruba, Australia, Austria, Bahamas (The), Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, Colombia, Congo (Democratic Republic of the), Congo (Republic of the), Costa Rica, Cote d'Ivoire, Croatia, Curaçao, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Estonia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, Gambia (The), Germany, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Kenya, Kiribati, Korea (Republic of), Latvia, Lesotho, Liberia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mauritius, Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Monaco, Mozambique, Namibia, Nauru, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Palau, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Rwanda, St. Kitts & Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, Sao Tome & Principe, Samoa, San Marino, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Sint Maarten (the Dutch two-fifths of the island of Saint Martin), Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Surinam, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Tanzania, Togo, Tonga, Thailand, Timor-Leste, Trinidad and Tobago, Turkey, Tuvalu, Uganda, United Kingdom, Uruguay, Vatican City, Venezuela, Western Sahara, Zambia, and Zimbabwe.


(2) *Eligible commodities.* All computers, including electronic assemblies and specially designed components therefore are eligible for export or reexport under License Exception APP to Tier 1 destinations, subject to the restrictions in paragraph (b) of this section.


(3) *Eligible technology and software.* (i) Technology and software described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section for computers of unlimited APP are eligible for export, reexport, transfer (in-country) under License Exception APP to countries listed in Country Group A:5, see supplement no. 1 to this part; and






(ii) “Development” and “production” technology and source code described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section for computers with a APP less than or equal to 175 Weighted TeraFLOPS (WT) are eligible for deemed exports under License Exception APP to foreign nationals of Tier 1 destinations, other than the destinations that are listed in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section, subject to the restrictions in paragraph (b) of this section.




(iii) “Use” technology and source code described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section for computers with a APP less than or equal to 500 WT are eligible for deemed exports under License Exception APP to foreign nationals of Tier 1 destinations, other than the destinations that are listed in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section, subject to the restrictions in paragraph (b) of this section.






(d) *Computer Tier 3 destinations*—(1) *Eligible destinations.* Eligible destinations under paragraph (d) of this section are: Afghanistan, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Belarus, Bosnia & Herzegovina, Burma, Cambodia, China (People's Republic of), Comoros, Djibouti, Egypt, Georgia, India, Iraq, Israel, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kosovo, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Lebanon, Libya, Macau, Macedonia (The Former Yugoslav Republic of), Mauritania, Moldova, Mongolia, Montenegro, Morocco, Oman, Pakistan, Qatar, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Serbia, Sudan, Tajikistan, Tunisia, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, Vietnam, and Yemen.


(2) *Eligible commodities.* None.


(3) *Eligible technology and source code.* (i) “Development” and “production” technology and source code described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section for computers with an APP less than or equal to 50 Weighted TeraFLOPs (WT) are eligible for deemed exports under License Exception APP to foreign nationals of Tier 3 destinations as described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, subject to the restrictions in paragraph (b) of this section.




(ii) “Use” technology and source code described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section for computers with an APP less than or equal to 140 WT are eligible for deemed exports under License Exception APP to foreign nationals of Tier 3 destinations as described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, subject to the restrictions in paragraph (b) of this section.






(e) *Reporting requirements.* See § 743.1 of the EAR for reporting requirements of certain items under License Exception APP.



---

[N] [71 FR 20883, Apr. 24, 2006] 




