# ยง 1090.106   Student loan servicing market.

(a) *Market-related definitions.* As used in this subpart:


*Account volume* means the number of accounts with respect to which a nonbank covered person is considered to perform student loan servicing, calculated as follows:


(i) *Number of accounts.* A nonbank covered person has at least one account for each student or prior student with respect to whom the nonbank covered person performs student loan servicing. If a nonbank covered person is receiving separate fees for performing student loan servicing with respect to a given student or prior student, the nonbank covered person has one account for each stream of fees to which the person is entitled.


(ii) *Time of measurement.* The number of accounts is counted as of December 31 of the prior calendar year.


(iii) *Affiliated companies.* (A) The account volume of a nonbank covered person is the sum of the number of accounts of that nonbank covered person and of any affiliated companies of that person.


(B) If two persons become affiliated companies, each person's number of accounts as of the prior calendar year's December 31 is included in the total account volume.


(C) If two affiliated companies cease to be affiliated companies, the number of accounts of each continues to be included in the other's account volume until the succeeding December 31.


*Post-secondary education expenses* means any of the expenses that are included as part of the cost of attendance of a student as defined in 20 U.S.C. 1087*ll.*

*Post-secondary education loan* means a loan that is made, insured or guaranteed under Title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070 *et seq.*) or that is extended to a consumer with the expectation that the funds extended will be used in whole or in part to pay post-secondary education expenses. A loan that is extended in order to refinance or consolidate a consumer's existing post-secondary education loans is also a post-secondary education loan. However, no loan under an open-end credit plan (as defined in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.2(a)(20)) or loan that is secured by real property is a post-secondary education loan, regardless of the purpose for the loan.


*Student loan servicing* means:


(i)(A) Receiving any scheduled periodic payments from a borrower or notification of such payments and


(B) Applying payments to the borrower's account pursuant to the terms of the post-secondary education loan or of the contract governing the servicing;


(ii) During a period when no payment is required on a post-secondary education loan,


(A) Maintaining account records for the loan and


(B) Communicating with the borrower regarding the loan, on behalf of the loan's holder; or


(iii) Interactions with a borrower, including activities to help prevent default on obligations arising from post-secondary education loans, conducted to facilitate the activities described in paragraph (i) or (ii) of this definition.


(b) *Test to define larger participants.* A nonbank covered person that offers or provides student loan servicing is a larger participant of the student loan servicing market if the nonbank covered person's account volume exceeds one million.



---

[N] [78 FR 73406, Dec. 6, 2013]




