# ยง 3120.31   Expression of interest process.

(a) A party submitting an expression of interest in leasing land available for disposition under section 17 of the Mineral Leasing Act must include the submitter's name and address and must submit the expression of interest through the BLM's online leasing system.


(b) The expression must provide a description of the lands identified by legal land description, as follows:


(1) For lands surveyed under the public land survey system, describe the lands to the nearest aliquot part within the legal subdivision, section, township, range, and meridian;


(2) For unsurveyed lands, describe the lands by metes and bounds, giving courses and distances, and tie this information to an official corner of the public land surveys, or to a prominent topographic feature;


(3) For approved protracted surveys, include an entire section, township, range, and meridian. Do not divide protracted sections into aliquot parts;


(4) For lands that have water boundaries, describe the lands based on the initial survey or deed acquiring ownership;


(5) For fractional interest lands, identify the United States mineral ownership by percentage;


(6) For split estate lands, where the surface rights are in private ownership and the rights to develop the oil and gas are managed by the Federal Government, submit the private surface owner's name and address.


(7) For lands where the acquiring agency has assigned an acquisition or tract number covering the lands applied, submit the number in addition to any description otherwise required by this section. If the authorized officer determines that the acquisition or tract number, together with identification of the State and county, constitutes an adequate description, the authorized officer may allow the description in this manner in lieu of other descriptions required by this section.


(c) A submitter may submit more than one expression of interest, so long as each expression separately satisfies the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.


(d) Each expression of interest must include a filing fee, as found in the fee schedule in ยง 3103.1 of this chapter.


(e) The BLM may offer for sale all or some of the lands specified in an expression of interest and may offer those lands as part of a parcel that includes lands not specified in the expression of interest.






