# § 721.1825   Bisphenol A, epichlorohydrin, polyalkylenepolyol and polyisocyanato derivative.

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as bisphenol A, epichlorohydrin, polyalkylenepolyol and polyisocyanato derivative (PMN P-89-750) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(viii), (a)(5)(ix), (a)(6)(ii), (a)(6)(v), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f) and (g)(1)(vi), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i) through (g)(2)(v), (g)(3)(ii), (g)(4)(i), and (g)(5).


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80 (l) and (q) (The production limit applies to the aggregate production volume of both P-89-750 and P-89-760. P-89-760 is the preferred substance for use in performing these tests. Results from such testing can be used to evaluate the toxicity of P-89-750 as well).


(iv) *Disposal.* Requirements as specified in § 721.85 (b)(1), (b)(2), (c)(1), and (c)(2).


(v) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90 (a)(2)(ii) (Oil and grease separation may be used as an alternative treatment), (b)(1), and (c)(1).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* The following recordkeeping requirements are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance, as specified in § 721.125 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), (i), (j), and (k).


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section.



---

[N] [55 FR 46772, Nov. 6, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]




