# § 660.33   What additional selection criteria does the Secretary use for an application to develop specialized instructional materials?

In addition to the criteria referred to in § 660.31, the Secretary evaluates an application to develop specialized instructional materials on the basis of the criteria in this section.


(a) *Need for the project.* The Secretary reviews each application for information that shows that—


(1) The proposed materials are needed in the educational field of study on which the project focuses; and


(2) The language or languages, the area, region, or country, or the issues or studies for which the materials are to be developed, are of sufficient priority and significance to the national interest to warrant financial support by the Federal Government.


(b) *Potential for the use of materials in other programs.* The Secretary reviews each application for information that shows the extent to which the proposed materials may be used elsewhere in the United States.


(c) *Account of related materials.* The Secretary reviews each application for information that shows that—


(1) All existing related or similar materials have been accounted for and the critical commentary on their adequacy is appropriate and accurate; and


(2) The proposed materials will not duplicate any existing adequate materials.


(d) *Likelihood of achieving results.* The Secretary reviews each application for information that shows that the outlined methods and procedures for preparing the materials are practicable and can be expected to produce the anticipated results.


(e) *Expected contribution to other programs.* The Secretary reviews each application for information that shows the extent to which the proposed work may contribute significantly to strengthening, expanding, or improving programs of foreign language studies, area studies, or international studies in the United States.


(f) *Description of final form of materials.* The Secretary reviews each application for information that shows a high degree of specificity in the description of the contents and final form of the proposed materials.


(g) *Provisions for pretesting and revision.* The Secretary reviews each application for information that shows that adequate provision has been made for—


(1) Pretesting the proposed materials; and


(2) If necessary, revising the proposed materials before publication.



---

[N] [47 FR 14124, Apr. 1, 1982, as amended at 58 FR 32577, June 10, 1993; 70 FR 13376, Mar. 21, 2005]




