# ยง 1806.500   Award Agreement; sanctions.

(a) *General.* After the CDFI Fund selects a Recipient, the CDFI Fund and the Recipient will enter into an Award Agreement. In addition to the requirements of the Uniform Administrative Requirements, the Award Agreement will require that the Recipient:


(1) Must carry out its Eligible Activities in accordance with applicable law, the approved BEA Program application, and all other applicable requirements;


(2) Must comply with such other terms and conditions that the CDFI Fund may establish;


(3) Will not receive any BEA Program Award payment until the CDFI Fund has determined that the Recipient has fulfilled all applicable requirements;


(4) Must comply with performance goals that have been established by the CDFI Fund. Such performance goals will include measures that require the Recipient to use its BEA Program Award funds for Eligible Activities; and


(5) Must comply with all data collection and reporting requirements. Each Recipient must submit to the CDFI Fund such information and documentation that will permit the CDFI Fund to review the Recipient's progress in satisfying the terms and conditions of its Award Agreement, including:


(i) *Annual report.* Each Recipient shall submit to the CDFI Fund at least annually and within 90 days after the end of each year of the Recipient's performance period, an annual report that will provide data that, among other things, demonstrates the Recipient's compliance with its performance goals (including a description of any noncompliance), its uses of the BEA Program Award funds, and the impact of the BEA Program and the CDFI industry. Recipients are responsible for the timely and complete submission of the annual report.


(ii) *Financial statement.* A Recipient is not required to submit its financial statement to the CDFI Fund. The CDFI Fund may obtain the necessary information from publicly available sources.


(b) *Sanctions.* In the event of any fraud, misrepresentation, or noncompliance with the terms of the Award Agreement by the Recipient, the CDFI Fund may terminate, reduce, or recapture the award, bar the Recipient and/or its Affiliates from applying for an award from the CDFI Fund for a period to be decided by the CDFI Fund in its sole discretion, and pursue any other available legal remedies.


(c) *Compliance with other CDFI Fund awards.* In the event that an Applicant, Recipient, or its Subsidiary or Affiliate is not in compliance, as determined by the CDFI Fund, with the terms and conditions of any CDFI Fund award, the CDFI Fund may, in its sole discretion, bar said Applicant or Recipient from applying for future BEA Program Awards or withhold payment (either initial or subsequent) of BEA Program Award funds.


(d) *Notice.* Prior to imposing any sanctions pursuant to this section or an Award Agreement, the CDFI Fund will provide the Recipient with written notice of the proposed sanction and an opportunity to respond. Nothing in this section, however, will provide a Recipient with the right to any formal or informal hearing or comparable proceeding not otherwise required by law.




