# § 21.3307   “Discontinued” status.

(a) *Placement in “discontinued” status.* If reentrance from *interrupted* status into a program of special restorative training is not approved under the provisions of § 21.3306, a counseling psychologist or vocational rehabilitation counselor will place the case in *discontinued* status. 


(b) *Notification.* In any case of discontinuance the Department of Veterans Affairs will:


(1) Notify the eligible person of the action taken, except that if the eligible person has a guardian or has not attained majority under laws applicable in his or her State of residence, VA will notify his or her parent or guardian (see § 21.3021(d)) of the action taken.


(2) Inform the eligible person of his or her potential right to a program of education, except that if the eligible person has a guardian or has not attained majority under laws applicable in his or her State of residence, VA will inform his or her parent or guardian (see § 21.3021(d)) of the eligible person's potential right to a program of education.


(c) *Effect of discontinuance.* An eligible person who has been placed in *discontinued* status is precluded from any further pursuit of special restorative training until a Department of Veterans Affairs counseling psychologist or vocational rehabilitation counselor in the Veteran Readiness and Employment (VR&E) Division determines that the cause of the discontinuance has been removed.



---

[N] [48 FR 37973, Aug. 22, 1983, as amended at 49 FR 42726, Oct. 24, 1984; 73 FR 2426, Jan. 15, 2008; 87 FR 8743, Feb. 16, 2022]




