# § 721.2075   Carbamodithioic acid, methyl-, compound with methanamine (1:1).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as carbamodithioic acid, methyl-, compound with methanamine (1:1) (P-84-1042), is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c).


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b)(2), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(1)(vi), and (g)(2)(i). The provision of § 721.72(d) requiring that employees be provided with information on the location and availability of SDSs does not apply when an SDS is not required under § 721.72(c). The provision of § 721.72(g) requiring placement of specific information in an SDS does not apply when an SDS is not required under § 721.72(c).


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 720.80(k). 


(iv) *Disposal.* Requirements as specified in § 721.85 (a)(2), (b)(2), and (c)(2).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph. 


(1) *Recordkeeping.* The following recordkeeping requirements are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance, as specified in § 721.125 (a) through (g), (i), and (j).


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to this section. 



---

[N] [56 FR 25990, June 5, 1991. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 29946, May 24, 1993; 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]




