# ยง 2807.15   How is grant administration affected if the land my grant encumbers is transferred to another Federal agency or out of Federal ownership?

(a) If there is a proposal to transfer the land your grant encumbers to another Federal agency, BLM may, after reasonable notice to you, transfer administration of your grant for the lands BLM formerly administered to another Federal agency, unless doing so would diminish your rights. If BLM determines your rights would be diminished by such a transfer, BLM can still transfer the land, but retain administration of your grant under existing terms and conditions.


(b) The BLM will provide reasonable notice to you if there is a proposal to transfer the land your grant encumbers out of Federal ownership. If you request, the BLM will negotiate new grant terms and conditions with you. This may include increasing the term of your grant to a perpetual grant or providing for an easement. These changes, if any, become effective prior to the time the land is transferred out of Federal ownership. The BLM may then, in conformance with existing policies and procedures:


(1) Transfer the land subject to your grant or easement. In this case, administration of your grant or easement for the lands BLM formerly administered is transferred to the new owner of the land;


(2) Transfer the land, but BLM retains administration of your grant or easement; or


(3) Reserve to the United States the land your grant or easement encumbers, and BLM retains administration of your grant or easement.


(c) You and the new land owner may agree to negotiate new grant terms and conditions any time after the land encumbered by your grant is transferred out of Federal ownership.



---

[N] [70 FR 21058, Apr. 22, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 65073, Oct. 31, 2008]




