# § 301.9100-18T   Election to include in gross income in year of transfer.

(a) *In general.* Under section 83(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 any person who performs services in connection with which property is transferred which at the time of transfer is not transferable by the transferee and is subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture may elect to include in his gross income for the taxable year in which such property is transferred, the excess of the fair market value of such property at the time of transfer (determined without regard to any restriction other than a restriction which by its terms will never lapse) over the amount (if any) paid for such property. If this election is made section 33(a) does not apply with respect to such property, and any subsequent appreciation in the value of the property is not taxable as compensation. However, if the property is later forfeited, no deduction is allowed to any person with respect to such forfeiture. This election is not necessary in the case of property which is transferred subject only to a restriction which by its terms will never lapse.


(b) *Manner of making election.* The election referred to in paragraph (a) of this section is made by filing two copies of a written statement with the internal revenue officer with whom the person who performed the services files his return.


(c) *Additional copies.* The person who performed the services shall also submit a copy of the statement referred to in paragraph (b) of this section to the person for whom the services are performed, and, in addition, if the person who performs the services in connection with which restricted property is transferred and the transferee of such property are not the same person, the person who performs the services shall submit a copy of such statement to the transferee of the property.


(d) *Content of statement.* The statement shall indicate that it is being made under section 83(b) of the Code, and shall contain the following information:


(1) The name, address, taxpayer identification number and the taxable year (For example, “Calendar year 1969” or “Fiscal year ending May 31, 1970”) of the person who performed the services;


(2) A description of each property with respect to which the election is being made;


(3) The date or dates on which the property is transferred;


(4) The nature of the restriction or restrictions to which the property is subject;


(5) The fair market value at the time of transfer (determined without regard to any restriction other than a restriction which by its terms will never lapse) of each property with respect to which the election is being made; and


(6) The amount (if any) paid for such property.


(e) *Time for making election.* The statement referred to in paragraph (b) of this section shall be filed not later than 30 days after the date the property was transferred (or, if later, January 29, 1970). Any statement filed before February 15, 1970, may be amended not later than 30 days after the publication of this Treasury decision in the _Federal Register_ in order to make it conform to the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section (January 17, 1970).


(f) *Revocability of election.* An election under section 83(b) may not be revoked except with the consent of the Commissioner.



---

[N] [T.D. 7021, 35 FR 626, Jan. 17, 1970; 35 FR 889, Jan. 22, 1970. Redesignated by T.D. 8435, 57 FR 43895, Sept. 23, 1992]




