# ยง  251.12   Limitation on unrelated activities.

(a) Activities unrelated to the distribution of USDA Foods or meal service may be conducted at distribution sites as long as:


(1) The person(s) conducting the activity makes clear that the activity is not part of TEFAP and is not endorsed by the Department. Nutrition education materials, such as recipes or other information about USDA Foods, dates of future distributions, hours of operations, or information about other Federal, State, or local government programs or services for the needy may be distributed without a clarification that the information is not endorsed by the Department;


(2) The person(s) conducting the activity makes clear that cooperation is not a condition of the receipt of USDA Foods for home consumption or prepared meals containing USDA Foods (cooperation includes contributing money, signing petitions, or conversing with the person(s));


(3) The activity is not conducted in a manner that disrupts the distribution of USDA Foods or meal service, and;


(4) The activity does not involve information unrelated to TEFAP being placed in or printed on bags, boxes, or other containers in which USDA Foods are distributed.


(b) Eligible recipient agencies and distribution sites shall ensure that activities unrelated to the distribution of USDA Foods or meal service are conducted in a manner consistent with paragraph (a) of this section.


(c) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, State agencies shall immediately terminate from further participation in TEFAP operations any eligible recipient agency that distributes or permits distribution of materials in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section.


(d) The State agency may withhold termination of an eligible recipient agency's or distribution site's TEFAP participation if the State agency cannot find another eligible recipient agency to operate the distribution in the area served by the violating organization. In such circumstances, the State agency shall monitor the violating organization to ensure that no further violations occur.



---

[N] [89 FR 87252, Oct. 31, 2024]






