# § 63.561   Definitions.

As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Clean Air Act or in subpart A of this part.


*Affected source* means a source with emissions of 10 or 25 tons, a new source with emissions less than 10 and 25 tons, a new major source offshore loading terminal, a source with throughput of 10 M barrels or 200 M barrels, or the VMT source, that is subject to the emissions standards in § 63.562.


*Affirmative defense* means, in the context of an enforcement proceeding, a response or a defense put forward by a defendant, regarding which the defendant has the burden of proof, and the merits of which are independently and objectively evaluated in a judicial or administrative proceeding.


*Air pollution control device* or *control device* means a combustion device or vapor recovery device.


*Ballasting operations* means the introduction of ballast water into a cargo tank of a tankship or oceangoing barge.


*Baseline operating parameter* means a minimum or maximum value of a process parameter, established for a control device during a performance test where the control device is meeting the required emissions reduction or established as the manufacturer recommended operating parameter, that, if achieved by itself or in combination with one or more other operating parameters, determines if a control device is operating properly.


*Boiler* means a device that combusts any fuel and produces steam or heats water or any other heat transfer medium. This term includes any duct burner that combusts fuel and is part of a combined cycle system.


*Car-seal* means a seal that is placed on a device used to change the position of a valve (e.g., from open to closed) in such a way that the position of the valve cannot be changed without breaking the seal.


*Combustion device* means all equipment, including, but not limited to, thermal incinerators, catalytic incinerators, flares, boilers, and process heaters used for combustion or destruction of organic vapors.


*Commenced* means, with respect to construction of an air pollution control device, that an owner or operator has undertaken a continuous program of construction or that an owner or operator has entered into a contractual obligation to undertake and complete, within a reasonable time, a continuous program of construction.


*Commodity* means a distinct product that a source loads onto marine tank vessels.


*Continuous* means, with respect to monitoring, reading and recording (either in hard copy or computer readable form) of data values measured at least once every 15 minutes.


*Crude oil* means a naturally occurring mixture consisting predominantly of hydrocarbons and/or sulfur, nitrogen, and oxygen derivatives of hydrocarbons that is removed from the earth in a liquid state or is capable of being so removed.


*Exceedance* or *Variance* means, with respect to parametric monitoring, the operating parameter of the air pollution control device that is monitored as an indication of proper operation of the control device is outside the acceptable range or limits for the baseline parameter given in § 63.563(b)(4) through (9).


*Excess emissions* means, with respect to emissions monitoring, the concentration of the outlet stream of the air pollution control device is outside the acceptable range or limits for the baseline concentration given in § 63.563(b)(4) through (9).


*Flow indicator* means a device that indicates whether gas flow is present in a line or vent system.


*Gasoline* means any petroleum distillate or petroleum distillate/alcohol blend having a Reid vapor pressure of 27.6 kPa (4.0 psia) or greater, that is used as a fuel for internal combustion engines.


*Impurity* means HAP substances that are present in a commodity or that are produced in a process coincidentally with the primary product or commodity and that are 0.5 percent total HAP by weight or less. An impurity does not serve a useful purpose in the production or use of the primary product or commodity and is not isolated.


*Leak* means a reading of 10,000 parts per million volume (ppmv) or greater as methane that is determined using the test methods in Method 21, appendix A of part 60 of this chapter.


*Lightering* or *Lightering operation* means the offshore transfer of a bulk liquid cargo from one marine tank vessel to another vessel. 


*Loading berth* means the loading arms, pumps, meters, shutoff valves, relief valves, and other piping and valves necessary to fill marine tank vessels. The loading berth includes those items necessary for an offshore loading terminal.


*Loading cycle* means the time period from the beginning of filling a single marine tank vessel until commodity flow to the marine tank vessel ceases.


*Maintenance allowance* means a period of time that an affected source is allowed to perform maintenance on the loading berth without controlling emissions from marine tank vessel loading operations.


*Marine tank vessel loading operation* means any operation under which a commodity is bulk loaded onto a marine tank vessel from a terminal, which may include the loading of multiple marine tank vessels during one loading operation. Marine tank vessel loading operations do not include refueling of marine tank vessels.


*Marine vessel* or *Marine tank vessel* means any tank ship or tank barge that transports liquid product such as gasoline or crude oil in bulk.


*Nonvapor-tight* means any marine tank vessel that does not pass the required vapor-tightness test.


*Offshore loading terminal* means a location that has at least one loading berth that is 0.81 km (0.5 miles) or more from the shore that is used for mooring a marine tank vessel and loading liquids from shore.


*Primary fuel* means the fuel that provides the principal heat input to the device. To be considered primary, the fuel must be able to sustain operation of the device without the addition of other fuels.


*Process heater* means a device that transfers heat liberated by burning fuel to fluids contained in tubes, including all fluids except water that are heated to produce steam.


*Recovery device* means an individual unit of equipment, including, but not limited to, a carbon adsorber, condenser/refrigeration unit, or absorber that is capable of and used for the purpose of removing vapors and recovering liquids or chemicals.


*Routine loading* means, with respect to the VMT source, marine tank vessel loading operations that occur as part of normal facility operation over a loading berth when no loading berths are inoperable due to maintenance.


*Secondary fuel* means any fuel other than the primary fuel. The secondary fuel provides supplementary heat in addition to the heat provided by the primary fuel and is generally fired through a burner other than the primary burner.


*Source(s)* means any location where at least one dock or loading berth is bulk loading onto marine tank vessels, except offshore drilling platforms and lightering operations.


*Source(s) with emissions less than 10 and 25 tons* means major source(s) having aggregate actual HAP emissions from marine tank vessel loading operations at all loading berths as follows:


(1) Prior to the compliance date, of less than 9.1 Mg (10 tons) of each individual HAP calculated on a 24-month annual average basis after September 19, 1997 and less than 22.7 Mg (25 tons) of all HAP combined calculated on a 24-month annual average basis after September 19, 1997, as determined by emission estimation in § 63.565(l) of this subpart; and


(2) After the compliance date, of less than 9.1 Mg (10 tons) of each individual HAP calculated annually after September 20, 1999 and less than 22.7 Mg (25 tons) of all HAP combined calculated annually after September 20, 1999, as determined by emission estimation in § 63.565(l) of this subpart.


*Source(s) with emissions of 10 or 25 tons* means major source(s) having aggregate actual HAP emissions from marine tank vessels loading operations at all loading berths as follows:


(1) Prior to the compliance date, emissions of 9.1 Mg (10 tons) or more of each individual HAP calculated on a 24-month annual average basis after September 19, 1997 or of 22.7 Mg (25 tons) or more of all HAP combined calculated on a 24-month annual average basis after September 19, 1997, as determined by emission estimation in § 63.565(l); or


(2) After the compliance date, emissions of 9.1 Mg (10 tons) or more of each individual HAP calculated annually after September 20, 1999 or of 22.7 Mg (25 tons) or more of all HAP combined calculated annually after September 20, 1999, as determined by emission estimation in § 63.565(l).


*Source(s) with throughput less than 10 M barrels and 200 M barrels* means source(s) having aggregate loading from marine tank vessel loading operations at all loading berths as follows:


(1) Prior to the compliance date, of less than 1.6 billion liters (10 million (M) barrels) of gasoline on a 24-month annual average basis and of less than 32 billion liters (200 M barrels) of crude oil on a 24-month annual average basis after September 19, 1996; and


(2) After the compliance date, of less than 1.6 billion liters (10 M barrels) of gasoline annually and of less than 32 billion liters (200 M barrels) of crude oil annually after September 21, 1998.


*Source(s) with throughput of 10 M barrels or 200 M barrels* means source(s) having aggregate loading from marine tank vessel loading operations at all loading berths as follows:


(1) Prior to the compliance date, of 1.6 billion liters (10 M barrels) or more of gasoline on a 24-month annual average basis or of 32 billion liters (200 M barrels) or more of crude oil on a 24-month annual average basis after September 19, 1996; or


(2) After the compliance date, of 1.6 billion liters (10 M barrels) or more of gasoline annually or of 32 billion liters (200 M barrels) or more of crude oil annually after September 21, 1998.


*Terminal* means all loading berths at any land or sea based structure(s) that loads liquids in bulk onto marine tank vessels.


*Twenty-four-month (24-month) annual average basis* means annual HAP emissions, with respect to MACT standards, or annual loading throughput, with respect to RACT standards, from marine tank vessel loading operations averaged over a 24-month period.


*Valdez Marine Terminal (VMT) source* means the major source that is permitted under the Trans-Alaska Pipeline Authorization Act (TAPAA) (43 U.S.C. § 1651 *et seq.*). The source is located in Valdez, Alaska in Prince William Sound.


*Vapor balancing system* means a vapor collection system or piping system that is designed to collect organic HAP vapors displaced from marine tank vessels during marine tank vessel loading operations and that is designed to route the collected organic HAP vapors to the storage vessel from which the liquid being loaded originated or to compress collected organic HAP vapors and commingle with the raw feed of a process unit.


*Vapor collection system* means any equipment located at the source, i.e., at the terminal, that is not open to the atmosphere, that is composed of piping, connections, and flow inducing devices, and that is used for containing and transporting vapors displaced during the loading of marine tank vessels to a control device or for vapor balancing. This does not include the vapor collection system that is part of any marine vessel vapor collection manifold system.


*Vapor-tight marine vessel* means a marine tank vessel that has demonstrated within the preceding 12 months to have no leaks. A marine tank vessel loaded at less than atmospheric pressure is assumed to be vapor tight for the purpose of this standard.


*Volatile organic compounds* or *VOC* is as defined in 40 CFR 51.100(s) of this chapter. 



---

[N] [60 FR 48399, Sept. 19, 1995, as amended at 76 FR 22596, Apr. 21, 2011]




