# ยง 1010.670   Summons or subpoena of foreign bank records; termination of correspondent relationship.

(a) *Definitions.* The definitions in ยง 1010.605 apply to this section.


(b) *Issuance to foreign banks.* The Secretary or the Attorney General may issue a summons or subpoena to any foreign bank that maintains a correspondent account in the United States and may request records related to such correspondent account, including records maintained outside of the United States relating to the deposit of funds into the foreign bank. The summons or subpoena may be served on the foreign bank in the United States if the foreign bank has a representative in the United States, or in a foreign country pursuant to any mutual legal assistance treaty, multilateral agreement, or other request for international law enforcement assistance.


(c) *Issuance to covered financial institutions.* Upon receipt of a written request from a Federal law enforcement officer for information required to be maintained by a covered financial institution under paragraph (a)(2) of ยง 1010.630, the covered financial institution shall provide the information to the requesting officer not later than 7 days after receipt of the request.


(d) *Termination upon receipt of notice.* A covered financial institution shall terminate any correspondent relationship with a foreign bank not later than 10 business days after receipt of written notice from the Secretary or the Attorney General (in each case, after consultation with the other) that the foreign bank has failed:


(1) To comply with a summons or subpoena issued under paragraph (b) of this section; or


(2) To initiate proceedings in a United States court contesting such summons or subpoena.


(e) *Limitation on liability.* A covered financial institution shall not be liable to any person in any court or arbitration proceeding for terminating a correspondent relationship in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.


(f) *Failure to terminate relationship.* Failure to terminate a correspondent relationship in accordance with this section shall render the covered financial institution liable for a civil penalty of up to $10,000 per day until the correspondent relationship is so terminated.




