# § 801.3   Definitions.

The following definitions apply in this part:


*Chairman* means the Chairman or Acting Chairman of the NTSB.


*FOIA Public Liaison* means a supervisory official, designated by the Chief FOIA Officer, who is responsible for assisting in reducing delays, increasing transparency and understanding of the status of requests, and assisting in resolving disputes.


*Managing Director* means the Managing Director of the NTSB.


*Non-docket items* include records from an accident that are not directly pertinent to the investigation, and are not in the public docket.


*Public Docket* includes a collection of records from an accident investigation that the agency deemed pertinent to the investigation.


*Record, document,* or any other term used to reference information includes:


(1) Any writing, drawing, map, recording, tape, film, photo, or other documentary material by which information is preserved. In this part, “document” and “record” have the same meaning;


(2) Any information that would be an agency record subject to the requirements of this section when maintained by the NTSB in any format, including an electronic format; and


(3) Any information described under subparagraphs (1) or (2) that is maintained for the NTSB by an entity under Government contract, for the purposes of records management.


*Redact* refers to the act of making a portion of text illegible by placing a black mark on top of the text.


*Requester* means any person, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 551(2), who submits a request pursuant to the FOIA.




