# ยง 993.62   Diversion privileges.

(a) *Prune plums.* The words *prune plums* as used in this section mean plums of a variety used in the production of prunes.


(b) *Voluntary principle.* No producer shall be required to divert all or any portion of the prune plums produced by him.


(c) *Authorization.* If, on the basis of a committee recommendation for diversion operations, the availability of governing rules and procedures established by the Secretary after recommendation of the committee, and other information, the Secretary concurs that diversion operations should be permitted, he shall authorize such operations.


(d) *Diversion certificates.* After diversion operations are authorized, and subject to the applicable rules and procedures, any producer may divert prune plums of his own production for eligible purposes and receive from the committee a diversion certificate therefor: *Provided,* That diversion certificates for prune plums diverted by producer members of a cooperative marketing association shall be issued by the committee to the association if it so requests. To the extent permitted by the rules and procedures, the certificate may be submitted to any handler in lieu of reserve prunes and to the same extent the certificate shall entitle the handler to satisfy his reserve obligation. Only to the extent permitted by the rules and procedures, diversion certificates may be transferable among producers and handlers.


(e) *Eligible diversions.* Within such restrictions as may be prescribed in rules and procedures, diversion may be authorized for such dispositions as are not competitive with the normal marketing of prunes and prune products. Such eligible diversions may include: (1) Disposal of prune plums for nonhuman use; (2) leaving prune plums unharvested; and (3) such other methods of diversion as may be authorized. No diversion certificate shall be issued by the committee for prune plums which would not, under normal producer practices, be dried and delivered to a handler.


(f) *Nonparticipation in pool proceeds.* Any prune plums diverted pursuant to this section shall not be included in any reserve pool.


(g) *Payment of costs.* Prior to the issuance of a diversion certificate to a producer or a cooperative marketing association, the producer or association shall pay to the committee fees established to cover costs pertaining to the diversion.



---

[N] [30 FR 9800, Aug. 6, 1965]




