# § 63.1315   Continuous process vents provisions.

(a) For each continuous process vent located at an affected source, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements of §§ 63.113 through 63.118, with the differences noted in paragraphs (a)(1) through (19) of this section for the purposes of this subpart, except as provided in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section.


(1) When the term “process vent” is used in §§ 63.113 through 63.118, the term “continuous process vent,” and the definition of this term in § 63.1312 shall apply for the purposes of this subpart. 


(2) When the term “Group 1 process vent” is used in §§ 63.113 through 63.118, the term “Group 1 continuous process vent,” and the definition of this term in § 63.1312 shall apply for the purposes of this subpart. 


(3) When the term “Group 2 process vent” is used in §§ 63.113 through 63.118, the term “Group 2 continuous process vent,” and the definition of this term in § 63.1312 shall apply for the purposes of this subpart. 


(4) When December 31, 1992 is referred to in § 63.113, apply the date March 29, 1995, for the purposes of this subpart. 


(5) When § 63.151(f), alternative monitoring parameters, and § 63.152(e), submission of an operating permit, are referred to in §§ 63.114(c) and 63.117(e), § 63.1335(f), alternative monitoring parameters, and § 63.1335(e)(8), submission of an operating permit, respectively, shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.


(6) When the Notification of Compliance Status requirements contained in § 63.152(b) are referred to in §§ 63.114, 63.117, and 63.118, the Notification of Compliance Status requirements contained in § 63.1335(e)(5) shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.


(7) When the Periodic Report requirements contained in § 63.152(c) are referred to in §§ 63.117 and 63.118, the Periodic Report requirements contained in § 63.1335(e)(6) shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.


(8) When the definition of excursion in § 63.152(c)(2)(ii)(A) is referred to in § 63.118(f)(2), the definition of excursion in § 63.1334(f) of this subpart shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.


(9) When § 63.114(e) or § 63.117(f) specifies that an owner or operator shall submit the information required in § 63.152(b) in order to establish the parameter monitoring range, the owner or operator of an affected source shall comply with the provisions of § 63.1335(e)(5) for purposes of reporting information related to establishment of the parameter monitoring level for purposes of this subpart. Further, the term “level” shall apply when the term “range” is used in §§ 63.114, 63.117, and 63.118.


(10) When reports of process changes are required under § 63.118(g), (h), (i), or (j), paragraphs (a)(10)(i) through (a)(10)(iv) of this section shall apply for the purposes of this subpart. In addition, for the purposes of this subpart, paragraph (a)(10)(v) of this section applies, and § 63.118(k) does not apply to owners or operators of affected sources. 


(i) For the purposes of this subpart, whenever a process change, as defined in § 63.115(e), is made that causes a Group 2 continuous process vent to become a Group 1 continuous process vent, the owner or operator shall submit a report within 180 days after the process change is made or with the next Periodic Report, whichever is later. A description of the process change shall be submitted with the report of the process change, and the owner or operator of the affected source shall comply with the Group 1 provisions in §§ 63.113 through 63.118 in accordance with § 63.1310(i)(2)(ii) or (i)(2)(iii), as applicable. 


(ii) Whenever a process change, as defined in § 63.115(e), is made that causes a Group 2 continuous process vent with a TRE greater than 4.0 to become a Group 2 continuous process vent with a TRE less than 4.0, the owner or operator shall submit a report within 180 days after the process change is made or with the next Periodic Report, whichever is later. A description of the process change shall be submitted with the report of the process change, and the owner or operator shall comply with the provisions in § 63.113(d) by the dates specified in § 63.1311. 


(iii) Whenever a process change, as defined in § 63.115(e), is made that causes a Group 2 continuous process vent with a flow rate less than 0.005 standard cubic meter per minute to become a Group 2 continuous process vent with a flow rate of 0.005 standard cubic meter per minute or greater and a TRE index value less than or equal to 4.0, the owner or operator shall submit a report within 180 days after the process change is made or with the next Periodic Report, whichever is later. A description of the process change shall be submitted with the report of the process change, and the owner or operator shall comply with the provisions in § 63.113(d) by the dates specified in § 63.1311. 


(iv) Whenever a process change, as defined in § 63.115(e), is made that causes a Group 2 continuous process vent with an organic HAP concentration less than 50 parts per million by volume to become a Group 2 continuous process vent with an organic HAP concentration of 50 parts per million by volume or greater and a TRE index value less than or equal to 4.0, the owner or operator shall submit a report within 180 days after the process change is made or with the next Periodic Report, whichever is later. A description of the process change shall be submitted with the report of the process change, and the owner or operator shall comply with the provisions in § 63.113(d) by the dates specified in § 63.1311. 


(v) The owner or operator is not required to submit a report of a process change if one of the conditions listed in paragraphs (a)(10)(v)(A), (a)(10)(v)(B), (a)(10)(v)(C), or (a)(10)(v)(D) of this section is met. 


(A) The process change does not meet the definition of a process change in § 63.115(e); 


(B) The vent stream flow rate is recalculated according to § 63.115(e) and the recalculated value is less than 0.005 standard cubic meter per minute; 


(C) The organic HAP concentration of the vent stream is recalculated according to § 63.115(e) and the recalculated value is less than 50 parts per million by volume; or 


(D) The TRE index value is recalculated according to § 63.115(e) and the recalculated value is greater than 4.0, or for the affected sources producing methyl methacrylate butadiene styrene resin the recalculated value is greater than 6.7. 


(11) When the provisions of § 63.116(c)(3) and (c)(4) specify that Method 18, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A shall be used, Method 18 or Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A may be used for the purposes of this subpart. The use of Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A shall conform with the requirements in paragraphs (a)(11)(i) and (a)(11)(ii) of this section. 


(i) The organic HAP used as the calibration gas for Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A shall be the single organic HAP representing the largest percent by volume of the emissions. 


(ii) The use of Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A is acceptable if the response from the high-level calibration gas is at least 20 times the standard deviation of the response from the zero calibration gas when the instrument is zeroed on the most sensitive scale. 


(12) When § 63.118, periodic reporting and recordkeeping requirements, refers to § 63.152(f), the recordkeeping requirements in § 63.1335(d) shall apply for purposes of this subpart. 


(13) If a batch process vent or aggregate batch vent stream is combined with a continuous process vent, the owner or operator of the affected source containing the combined vent stream shall comply with paragraph (a)(13)(i); with paragraph (a)(13)(ii) and with paragraph (a)(13)(iii) or (iv); or with paragraph (a)(13)(v) of this section, as appropriate. 


(i) If a batch process vent or aggregate batch vent stream is combined with a Group 1 continuous process vent prior to the combined vent stream being routed to a control device, the owner or operator of the affected source containing the combined vent stream shall comply with the requirements in paragraph (a)(13)(i)(A) or (B) of this section. 


(A) All requirements for a Group 1 process vent stream in §§ 63.113 through 63.118, except as otherwise provided in this section. As specified in § 63.1333(a)(1), performance tests shall be conducted at maximum representative operating conditions. For the purpose of conducting a performance test on a combined vent stream, maximum representative operating conditions shall be when batch emission episodes are occurring that result in the highest organic HAP emission rate (for the combined vent stream) that is achievable during one of the periods listed in § 63.1333(a)(1)(i) or § 63.1333(a)(1)(ii), without causing any of the situations described in paragraphs (a)(13)(i)(A)(*1*) through (*3*) to occur. 


(*1*) Causing damage to equipment. 


(*2*) Necessitating that the owner or operator make product that does not meet an existing specification for sale to a customer; or 


(*3*) Necessitating that the owner or operator make product in excess of demand. 


(B) Comply with the provisions in § 63.1313(b)(1), as allowed under § 63.1313(b). 


(ii) If a batch process vent or aggregate batch vent stream is combined with a continuous process vent prior to the combined vent stream being routed to a recovery device, the TRE index value for the combined vent stream shall be calculated at the exit of the last recovery device. The TRE shall be calculated during periods when one or more batch emission episodes are occurring that result in the highest organic HAP emission rate (in the combined vent stream that is being routed to the recovery device) that is achievable during the 6-month period that begins 3 months before and ends 3 months after the TRE calculation, without causing any of the situations described in paragraphs (a)(13)(ii)(A) through (C) to occur. 


(A) Causing damage to equipment. 


(B) Necessitating that the owner or operator make product that does not meet an existing specification for sale to a customer; or 


(C) Necessitating that the owner or operator make product in excess of demand. 


(iii) If the combined vent stream described in paragraph (a)(10)(ii) of this section meets the requirements in paragraphs (a)(13)(iii)(A), (B), and (C) of this section, the combined vent stream shall be subject to the requirements for Group 1 process vents in §§ 63.113 through 63.118, except as otherwise provided in this section, as applicable. Performance tests for the combined vent stream shall be conducted at maximum operating conditions, as described in paragraph (a)(13)(i) of this section. 


(A) The TRE index value of the combined stream is less than or equal to 1.0; 


(B) The flow rate of the combined vent stream is greater than or equal to 0.005 standard cubic meter per minute; and 


(C) The total organic HAP concentration is greater than or equal to 50 parts per million by volume for the combined vent stream. 


(iv) If the combined vent stream described in paragraph (a)(10)(ii) of this section meets the requirements in paragraph (a)(13)(iv)(A), (B), or (C) of this section, the combined vent stream shall be subject to the requirements for Group 2 process vents in §§ 63.113 through 63.118, except as otherwise provided in this section, as applicable. 


(A) The TRE index value of the combined vent stream is greater than 1.0; 


(B) The flow rate of the combined vent stream is less than 0.005 standard cubic meter per minute; or 


(C) The total organic HAP concentration is less than 50 parts per million by volume for the combined vent stream. 


(v) If a batch process vent or aggregate batch vent stream is combined with a Group 2 continuous process vent, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements in either paragraph (a)(13)(v)(A) or (a)(13)(v)(B) of this section. 


(A) The owner or operator shall comply with the requirements in §§ 63.113 through 63.118 for Group 1 process vents; or 


(B) The owner or operator shall comply with § 63.1322(e)(2) for batch process vents and aggregate batch vent streams. 


(14) If any gas stream that originates outside of an affected source that is subject to this subpart is normally conducted through the same final recovery device as any continuous process vent stream subject to this subpart, the owner or operator of the affected source with the combined vent stream shall comply with all requirements in §§ 63.113 through 63.118 of subpart G of this part, except as otherwise noted in this section, as applicable. 


(i) Instead of measuring the vent stream flow rate at the sampling site specified in § 63.115(b)(1), the sampling site for vent stream flow rate shall be prior to the final recovery device and prior to the point at which the gas stream that is not controlled under this subpart is introduced into the combined vent stream. 


(ii) Instead of measuring total organic HAP or TOC concentrations at the sampling site specified in § 63.115(c)(1), the sampling site for total organic HAP or TOC concentration shall be prior to the final recovery device and prior to the point at which the gas stream that is not controlled under this subpart is introduced into the combined vent stream. 


(iii) The efficiency of the final recovery device (determined according to paragraph (a)(14)(iv) of this section) shall be applied to the total organic HAP or TOC concentration measured at the sampling site described in paragraph (a)(14)(ii) of this section to determine the exit concentration. This exit concentration of total organic HAP or TOC shall then be used to perform the calculations outlined in § 63.115(d)(2)(iii) and § 63.115(d)(2)(iv), for the combined vent stream exiting the final recovery device. 


(iv) The efficiency of the final recovery device is determined by measuring the total organic HAP or TOC concentration using Method 18 or 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, at the inlet to the final recovery device after the introduction of any gas stream that is not controlled under this subpart, and at the outlet of the final recovery device. 


(15) When § 63.115(c)(3)(ii)(B) and (d)(2)(iv) and § 63.116(c)(3)(ii)(B) and (c)(4)(ii)(C) refer to Table 2 of subpart F of this part, the owner or operator is only required to consider organic HAP listed on Table 6 of this subpart for purposes of this subpart. 


(16) The compliance date for continuous process vents subject to the provisions of this section is specified in § 63.1311. 


(17) In § 63.116(a), instead of the reference to § 63.11(b), the requirements in § 63.1333(e) shall apply. 


(18) When a combustion device is used to comply with the 20 parts per million by volume outlet concentration standard specified in § 63.113(a)(2), the correction to 3 percent oxygen is only required when supplemental combustion air is used to combust the emissions, for the purposes of this subpart. In addition, the correction to 3 percent oxygen specified in § 63.116(c)(3) and (c)(3)(iii) is only required when supplemental combustion air is used to combust the emissions, for the purposes of this subpart. Finally, when a combustion device is used to comply with the 20 parts per million by volume outlet concentration standard specified in § 63.113(a)(2), an owner or operator shall record and report the outlet concentration required in § 63.117(a)(4)(ii) and (a)(4)(iv) corrected to 3 percent oxygen when supplemental combustion air is used to combust the emissions, for the purposes of this subpart. When supplemental combustion air is not used to combust the emissions, an owner or operator may record and report the outlet concentration required in § 63.117(a)(4)(ii) and (a)(4)(iv) on an uncorrected basis or corrected to 3 percent oxygen, for the purposes of this subpart.


(19) During periods of startup or shutdown, as an alternative to using the procedures specified in § 63.116, an owner or operator of an affected source or emission unit subject to an emission limit expressed as mass emissions per mass product may demonstrate compliance with the limit in accordance with paragraph (a)(19)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section.


(i) Keep records establishing that the raw material introduced and product discharged rates were both zero.


(ii) Divide the organic HAP emission rate during startup or shutdown by the rate of polymer produced from the most recent performance test associated with a production rate greater than zero according to § 63.1318(b)(1). Keep records of this calculation.


(iii) Keep records establishing that the operating parameters of the control device used to comply with the emission limit in § 63.113(a)(1) or (2) were maintained at the level established to meet the emission limit at maximum representative operating conditions.


(b) Owners or operators of existing affected sources producing MBS shall comply with either paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section. 


(1) Comply with paragraph (a) of this section, as specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (b)(1)(ii).


(i) As specified in § 63.1312, Group 1 continuous process vents at MBS existing affected sources are those with a total resource effectiveness value less than or equal to 3.7.


(ii) When complying with this paragraph (b) and the term “TRE of 4.0” is used, or related terms indicating a TRE index value of 4.0, referred to in §§ 63.113 through 63.118, are used, the term “TRE of 6.7,” shall apply instead, for the purposes of this subpart. The TRE range of 3.7 to 6.7 for continuous process vents at existing affected sources producing MBS corresponds to the TRE range of 1.0 to 4.0 for other continuous process vents, as it applies to monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting. 


(2) Not allow organic HAP emissions from the collection of continuous process vents at the affected source to be greater than 0.000590 kg organic HAP/Mg of product. Compliance with this paragraph (b)(2) shall be determined using the procedures specified in § 63.1333(b). During periods of startup or shutdown, as an alternative to using the procedures specified in § 63.1333(b), an owner or operator of an affected source or emission unit subject to an emission limit expressed as mass emissions per mass product may demonstrate compliance with the limit in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section.


(i) Keep records establishing that the raw material introduced and product discharged rates were both zero.


(ii) Divide the organic HAP emission rate during startup or shutdown by the rate of polymer produced from the most recent performance test associated with a production rate greater than zero according to § 63.1333(b). Keep records of this calculation.


(iii) Keep records establishing that the operating parameters of the control device used to comply with the emission limit in paragraph (b)(2) of this section were maintained at the level established to meet the emission limit at maximum representative operating conditions.


(c) Owners or operators of new affected sources producing SAN using a batch process shall comply with the applicable requirements in § 63.1321. 


(d) Affected sources producing PET or polystyrene using a continuous process are subject to the emissions control provisions of § 63.1316, the monitoring provisions of § 63.1317, the testing and compliance demonstration provisions of § 63.1318, the recordkeeping provisions of § 63.1319, and the reporting provisions of § 63.1320. However, in some instances as specified in § 63.1316, select continuous process vents present at affected sources producing PET or polystyrene using a continuous process are subject to the provisions of this section.


(e) Owners or operators of affected sources producing ASA/AMSAN shall reduce organic HAP emissions from each continuous process vent, each batch process vent, and each aggregate batch vent stream by 98 weight-percent and shall comply with either paragraph (e)(1), (e)(2), or (e)(3), as appropriate. Where batch process vents or aggregate batch vent streams are combined with continuous process vents, the provisions of paragraph (a)(13) of this section shall apply for the purposes of this paragraph (e).


(1) For each continuous process vent, comply with paragraph (a) of this section as specified in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (e)(1)(ii) of this section.


(i) For purpose of this section, each continuous process vent shall be considered to be a Group 1 continuous process vent and the owner or operator of that continuous process vent shall comply with the requirements for a Group 1 continuous process vent.


(ii) For purposes of this section, the group determination procedure required by § 63.115 shall not apply.


(2) For each batch process vent, comply with §§ 63.1321 through 63.1327 as specified in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) through (e)(2)(ii) of this section.


(i) For purpose of this section, each batch process vent shall be considered to be a Group 1 batch process vent and the owner or operator of that batch process vent shall comply with the requirements for a Group 1 batch process vent contained in §§ 63.1321 through 63.1327, except that each batch process vent shall be controlled to reduce organic HAP emissions by 98 weight-percent.


(ii) For purposes of this section, the group determination procedure required by § 63.1323 shall not apply.


(3) For each aggregate batch vent stream, comply with §§ 63.1321 through 63.1327 as specified in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) through (e)(3)(ii) of this section.


(i) For purpose of this section, each aggregate batch vent stream shall be considered to be a Group 1 aggregate batch vent stream and the owner or operator of that aggregate batch vent stream shall comply with the requirements for a Group 1 aggregate batch vent stream contained in §§ 63.1321 through 63.1327, except that each aggregate batch vent stream shall be controlled to reduce organic HAP emissions by 98 weight-percent.


(ii) For purposes of this section, the group determination procedure required by § 63.1323 shall not apply.



---

[N] [61 FR 48229, Sept. 12, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 11547, Mar. 9, 1999; 65 FR 38107, June 19, 2000; 66 FR 36938, July 16, 2001; 79 FR 17364, Mar. 27, 2014]




