# ยง 192.675   Conditions imposed upon approval of voluntary supervisory conversion application.

(a) *Required condition.* The appropriate Federal banking agency will condition approval of a voluntary supervisory conversion application on all of the following.


(1) The savings association must complete the conversion stock sale within three months after the appropriate Federal banking agency approves the application. The appropriate Federal banking agency may grant an extension for good cause.


(2) The savings association must comply with all filing requirements of this part, and 12 CFR part 16.


(3) The savings association must submit an opinion of independent legal counsel indicating that the sale of its shares complies with all applicable State securities law requirements.


(4) The savings association must comply with all applicable laws, rules, and regulations.


(5) The savings association must satisfy any other requirements or conditions the appropriate Federal banking agency may impose.


(b) *Discretionary conditions.* The appropriate Federal banking agency may condition approval of a voluntary supervisory application for conversion on either of the following:


(1) The savings association must satisfy any conditions and restrictions the appropriate Federal banking agency imposes to prevent unsafe or unsound practices, to protect the Deposit Insurance Fund and the public interest, and to prevent potential injury or detriment to the savings association before and after the conversion. The appropriate Federal banking agency may impose these conditions and restrictions on the savings association (before and after the conversion) or, as appropriate, the savings association's acquiror, controlling parties, or its directors and officers; or


(2) The savings association must infuse a larger amount of capital, if necessary, for safety and soundness reasons.




