# ยง 73.2995   Luminescent zinc sulfide.

(a) *Identity.* The color additive luminescent zinc sulfide is zinc sulfide containing a copper activator. Following excitation by daylight or a suitable artificial light, luminescent zinc sulfide produces a yellow-green phosphorescence with a maximum at 530 nanometers.


(b) *Specifications.* Luminescent zinc sulfide shall conform to the following specifications and shall be free from impurities other than those named to the extent that such impurities may be avoided by good manufacturing practice:


(c) *Uses and restrictions.* The color additive luminescent zinc sulfide may be safely used for coloring externally applied facial makeup preparations and nail polish included under ยง 720.4(c)(7)(ix) and (c)(8)(v) of this chapter, respectively, to the following restrictions:


(1) The amount of luminescent zinc sulfide in facial makeup preparations shall not exceed 10 percent by weight of the final product.


(2) Facial makeup preparations containing luminescent zinc sulfide are intended for use only on limited, infrequent occasions, e.g., Halloween, and not for regular or daily use.


(d) *Labeling requirements.* (1) The label of the color additive and any mixtures prepared therefrom shall bear expiration dates for the sealed and open container (established through generally accepted stability testing methods), other information required by ยง 70.25 of this chapter, and adequate directions to prepare a final product complying with the limitations prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section.


(2) The label of a facial makeup preparation containing the color additive shall bear, in addition to other information required by the law, the following statement conspicuously displayed:


Do not use in the area of the eye.


(e) *Exemption from certification.* Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore batches thereof are exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.



---

[N] [65 FR 48377, Aug. 8, 2000; 65 FR 75158, Dec. 1, 2000]




