# § 25.200   Requirements for notice of funding opportunities, regulations, and application instructions.

(a) A Federal agency that issues Federal financial assistance (see § 25.400) must include the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section in each notice of funding opportunity, regulation, or other issuance containing instructions for applicants that is issued on or after the effective date of this guidance. A notice of funding opportunity is any paper or electronic issuance that a Federal agency uses to announce a funding opportunity, whether it is called a “program announcement,” “notice of funding availability,” “broad agency announcement,” “research announcement,” “solicitation,” or any other term.


(b) The notice of funding opportunity, regulation, or other issuance must require each applicant that does not have an exemption under § 25.110 to:


(1) Be registered in *SAM.gov* before submitting an application;


(2) Maintain a current and active registration in *SAM.gov* at all times during which it has an active Federal award as a recipient or an application under consideration by a Federal agency. The applicant or recipient must review and update its information in *SAM.gov* annually from the date of initial registration or subsequent updates to ensure it is current, accurate, and complete. If applicable, this includes identifying the applicant's or recipient's immediate and highest-level owner and subsidiaries, as well as providing information on all predecessors that have received a Federal award or contract within the last three years; and


(3) Include its UEI in each application it submits to the Federal agency.


(c) For the purposes of this policy, the applicant must meet the Federal agency's eligibility criteria and have the legal authority to apply for and receive the Federal award. For example, if a consortium applies for a Federal award to be made to the consortium as the recipient, the consortium must have a UEI. If a consortium is eligible to receive funding under a Federal agency program, but the agency's policy is to make the Federal award to a lead entity for the consortium, the UEI of the lead applicant must be used.






