# § 21.11   Meaning of terms.

When used in this part and in forms prescribed under this part, unless the context otherwise requires, terms have the meanings given in this section. Words in the plural form include the singular, and vice versa, and words indicating the masculine gender include the feminine. The terms “includes” and “including” do not exclude things not mentioned which are in the same general class.


*Administrator.* The Administrator, Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC.


*Alcohol.* The spirits known as ethyl alcohol, ethanol, or spirits of wine, from whatever source or by whatever process produced. The term does not include such spirits as whisky, brandy, rum, gin, or vodka.


*Appropriate TTB officer.* An officer or employee of the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (TTB) authorized to perform any functions relating to the administration or enforcement of this part by the current version of TTB Order 1135.21, Delegation of the Administrator's Authorities in 27 CFR Part 21, Formulas For Denatured Alcohol and Rum.


*CFR.* The Code of Federal Regulations.


*C.D.A.* Completely denatured alcohol.


*Completely denatured alcohol.* The spirits known as alcohol, as defined in this section, denatured pursuant to completely denatured alcohol formulas prescribed in subpart C of this part.


*Denaturant.* A material authorized by this part to be added to spirits in order to make those spirits unfit for beverage or internal human medicinal use.


*Denatured spirits.* Alcohol or rum to which denaturants have been added as provided in this part.


*Essential oil.* Any of the volatile odoriferous natural oils found in plants, which impart to such plants odor, and often other characteristic properties; also, imitations of such natural oils, as well as aromatic substances, and synthetic oils, which possess the denaturing characteristics of such natural oils.


*Gallon.* The liquid measure equivalent to the volume of 231 cubic inches.


*Manufacturer or user.* A person who holds a permit, issued under part 20 of this chapter, to withdraw and use specially denatured alcohol or specially denatured rum, or to recover completely or specially denatured alcohol, or specially denatured rum, or articles manufactured with denatured spirits, or a distilled spirits plant proprietor qualified under part 19 of this chapter as a processor.


*N.F.* The National Formulary. The lastest edition is intended unless otherwise specified. The designations “U.S.P.” and “N.F.” are considered interchangeable when preparations are transferred from one publication to the other. (For incorporation by reference, see § 21.6(a).)


*Proof.* The ethyl alcohol content of a liquid at 60 degrees Fahrenheit, stated as twice the percent of ethyl alcohol by volume.


*Rum.* Any spirits produced from sugar cane products and distilled at less than 190 proof in such manner that the spirits possess the taste, aroma, and characteristics generally attributed to rum.


*S.D.A.* Specially denatured alcohol.


*Specially denatured alcohol.* Those spirits known as alcohol, as defined in this section, denatured pursuant to the specially denatured alcohol formulas authorized under subpart D of this part.


*Specially denatured rum.* Those spirits known as rum, as defined in this section, denatured pursuant to the specially denatured rum formula authorized under subpart D of this part.


*Spirits or distilled spirits.* Alcohol or rum as defined in this part.


*U.S.C.* The United States Code.


*U.S.P.* The United States Pharmacopoeia. The latest edition is intended unless otherwise specified. The designations “U.S.P.” and “N.F.” are considered interchangeable when preparations are transferred from one publication to the other. (For incorporation by reference, see § 21.6(a).)



---

[N] [T.D. ATF-133, 48 FR 24673, June 2, 1983, as amended by T.D. ATF-199, 50 FR 9183, Mar. 6, 1985; T.D. ATF-435, 66 FR 5475, Jan. 19, 2001; T.D. TTB-44, 71 FR 16936, Apr. 4, 2006; T.D.TTB-140 81 FR 59460, Aug. 30, 2016]




