# ยง 8.6   Advisory opinions.

(a) *Procedures.* (1) Any entity that is subject to the Commission's open internet rules in this part may request an advisory opinion from the Enforcement Bureau regarding the permissibility of its proposed policies and practices relating to broadband internet access service. Requests for advisory opinions may be filed via the Commission's website or with the Office of the Secretary and must be copied to the Chief of the Enforcement Bureau and the Chief of the Investigations and Hearings Division of the Enforcement Bureau.


(2) The Enforcement Bureau may, in its discretion, determine whether to issue an advisory opinion in response to a particular request or group of requests and will inform each requesting entity, in writing, whether the Bureau plans to issue an advisory opinion regarding the matter in question.


(3) Requests for advisory opinions must relate to a proposed policy or practice that the requesting party intends to pursue. The Enforcement Bureau will not respond to requests for opinions that relate to ongoing or prior conduct, and the Bureau may initiate an enforcement investigation to determine whether such conduct violates the open internet rules in this part. Additionally, the Bureau will not respond to requests if the same or substantially the same conduct is the subject of a current Government investigation or proceeding, including any ongoing litigation or open rulemaking at the Commission.


(4) Requests for advisory opinions must be accompanied by all material information sufficient for Enforcement Bureau staff to make a determination on the policy or practice for which review is requested. Requesters must certify that factual representations made to the Bureau are truthful and accurate, and that they have not intentionally omitted any information from the request. A request for an advisory opinion that is submitted by a business entity or an organization must be executed by an individual who is authorized to act on behalf of that entity or organization.


(5) Enforcement Bureau staff will have discretion to ask parties requesting advisory opinions, as well as other parties that may have information relevant to the request or that may be impacted by the proposed conduct, for additional information that the staff deems necessary to respond to the request. Such additional information, if furnished orally or during an in-person conference with Bureau staff, shall be promptly confirmed in writing. Parties are not obligated to respond to staff inquiries related to advisory opinions. If a requesting party fails to respond to a staff inquiry, then the Bureau may dismiss that party's request for an advisory opinion. If a party voluntarily responds to a staff inquiry for additional information, then it must do so by a deadline to be specified by Bureau staff. Advisory opinions will expressly state that they rely on the representations made by the requesting party, and that they are premised on the specific facts and representations in the request and any supplemental submissions.


(b) *Response.* After review of a request submitted under this section, the Enforcement Bureau will:


(1) Issue an advisory opinion that will state the Bureau's present enforcement intention with respect to whether or not the proposed policy or practice detailed in the request complies with the Commission's open internet rules in this part;


(2) Issue a written statement declining to respond to the request; or


(3) Take such other position or action as it considers appropriate. An advisory opinion states only the enforcement intention of the Enforcement Bureau as of the date of the opinion, and it is not binding on any party. Advisory opinions will be issued without prejudice to the Enforcement Bureau or the Commission to reconsider the questions involved, or to rescind or revoke the opinion. Advisory opinions will not be subject to appeal or further review.


(c) *Enforcement effect.* The Enforcement Bureau will have discretion to indicate the Bureau's lack of enforcement intent in an advisory opinion based on the facts, representations, and warranties made by the requesting party. The requesting party may rely on the opinion only to the extent that the request fully and accurately contains all the material facts and representations necessary to issuance of the opinion and the situation conforms to the situation described in the request for opinion. The Bureau will not bring an enforcement action against a requesting party with respect to any action taken in good faith reliance upon an advisory opinion if all of the relevant facts were fully, completely, and accurately presented to the Bureau, and where such action was promptly discontinued upon notification of rescission or revocation of the Commission's or Bureau's approval.


(d) *Public disclosure.* The Enforcement Bureau will make advisory opinions available to the public on the Commission's website. The Bureau will also publish the initial request for guidance and any associated materials. Parties soliciting advisory opinions may request confidential treatment of information submitted in connection with a request for an advisory opinion pursuant to ยง 0.459 of this chapter.


(e) *Withdrawal of request.* Any requesting party may withdraw a request for review at any time prior to receipt of notice that the Enforcement Bureau intends to issue an adverse opinion, or the issuance of an opinion. The Enforcement Bureau remains free, however, to submit comments to such requesting party as it deems appropriate. Failure to take action after receipt of documents or information, whether submitted pursuant to this procedure or otherwise, does not in any way limit or stop the Bureau from taking such action at such time thereafter as it deems appropriate. The Bureau reserves the right to retain documents submitted to it under this procedure or otherwise and to use them for all governmental purposes.



---

[N] [89 FR 45554, May 22, 2024. Redesignated at 89 FR 61272, July 30, 2024]






