# § 1.1400Z2(d)-2   Qualified opportunity zone business property.

(a) *Qualified opportunity zone business property*—(1) *In general.* This section provides rules for determining whether owned or leased tangible property held by an eligible entity (within the meaning of § 1.1400Z2(d)-1(a)(1)) is qualified opportunity zone business property within the meaning of section 1400Z-2(d)(2)(D). Paragraph (a)(2) of this section provides general requirements that tangible property must satisfy to be qualified opportunity zone business property. Paragraph (b) of this section provides rules related to owned tangible property. Paragraph (c) of this section provides rules related to leased tangible property (that is, tangible property that the eligible entity acquires by lease from a lessor). Paragraph (d) of this section provides rules related to the 90-percent qualified opportunity zone business property holding period requirement and the 70-percent use test of section 1400Z-2(d)(2)(D)(i)(III). Paragraph (e) of this section provides the dates of applicability of this section.


(2) *Qualified opportunity zone business property requirements.* The term *qualified opportunity zone business property* means tangible property owned or leased by an eligible entity (as defined in § 1.1400Z2(d)-1(a)(1)) that—


(i) Is used by the eligible entity in a trade or business within the meaning of section 162; and


(ii) Satisfies the requirements of paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section, as applicable.


(b) *Tangible property owned by an eligible entity*—(1) *Purchase requirement*—(i) *In general.* In the case of tangible property that is owned by an eligible entity, the tangible property must be acquired by the eligible entity after December 31, 2017, by purchase as defined by section 179(d)(2) from a person that is not a related person within the meaning of section 1400Z-2(e)(2) (providing that persons are related to each other if such persons are described in section 267(b) or section 707(b)(1), determined by substituting “20 percent” for “50 percent” each place it appears in such sections).


(ii) *Plan, intent, or expectation for seller to repurchase acquired property.* In the case of real property that is purchased by an eligible entity, if, at the time of the purchase, there was a plan, intent, or expectation for the acquired real property to be repurchased by the seller of the real property for an amount of consideration other than the fair market value of the real property, determined at the time of the repurchase by the seller, the purchased real property is not qualified opportunity zone business property.


(iii) *Property manufactured, constructed, or produced for use in a qualified opportunity zone*—(A) *In general.* In the case of tangible property manufactured, constructed, or produced by an eligible entity, if the property is manufactured, constructed, or produced for use by an eligible entity with the intent to use such property in a trade or business in a qualified opportunity zone, then such property satisfies the requirements of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section if the manufacture, construction, or production begins after December 31, 2017. The materials and supplies used to manufacture, construct, or produce qualified opportunity zone business property by the eligible entity must also be qualified opportunity zone business property.


(B) *Time when manufacture, construction or production considered to begin.* For purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section, the acquisition date of such property is the date on which the manufacture, construction, or production of property (as defined in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section) begins. The manufacture, construction, or production of property begins when physical work of a significant nature begins. Physical work does not include preliminary activities such as planning or designing, securing financing, exploring or researching. The determination of when physical work of a significant nature begins depends on the facts and circumstances. For example, if a factory is to be constructed on-site, construction begins when physical work of a significant nature commences at the site; this could occur, for example, when work begins on the excavation of footings, or the pourings of pads for the factory. Preliminary work, such as clearing or testing of soil condition, does not constitute the beginning of construction.


(C) *Safe harbor.* For purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(B) of this section, a taxpayer may choose to determine when physical work of a significant nature begins in accordance with this paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(C). Physical work of a significant nature will not be considered to begin before the taxpayer incurs or pays more than 10 percent of the total cost of the property (excluding the cost of any land and preliminary activities such as planning or designing, securing financing, exploring, or researching).


(2) *Original use or substantial improvement requirement*—(i) *In general.* In the case of tangible property owned by the eligible entity either—


(A) The original use of the owned tangible property in the qualified opportunity zone, within the meaning of paragraph (b)(3) of this section, must commence with the eligible entity; or


(B) The eligible entity must substantially improve the owned tangible property within the meaning of paragraph (b)(4) of this section (which defines substantial improvement in this context).


(ii) *Inventory.* Inventory (including raw materials) of a trade or business produced by an eligible entity after December 31, 2017, is deemed to satisfy the requirements set forth in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2)(i) of this section.


(3) *Original use of tangible property acquired by purchase*—(i) *Original use*—(A) *In general.* For purposes of paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the original use of tangible property in a qualified opportunity zone commences on the date any person first places the property in service in the qualified opportunity zone for purposes of depreciation or amortization, or first uses it in a manner that would allow depreciation or amortization if that person were the property's owner.


(B) *Commencement of original use of vacant property.* For purposes of this paragraph (b)(3), if real property, including land and buildings, has been vacant for an uninterrupted period of at least one calendar year beginning on a date prior to the date on which the qualified opportunity zone in which the property is located is listed as a designated qualified opportunity zone in a QOZ designation notice and the property has remained vacant through the date on which the property was purchased by the eligible entity, or if the property has been vacant for an uninterrupted three calendar year period beginning on a date after the date of publication of the QOZ designation notice that lists as designated the qualified opportunity zone in which the property is located and the property has remained vacant through the date on which the property was purchased by the eligible entity, original use in the qualified opportunity zone commences on the date after that period when any person first so uses or places the property in service in the qualified opportunity zone. Such property must satisfy the definition of vacancy under paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section.


(C) *Used tangible property.* Used tangible property satisfies the original use requirement if the property has not been previously so used or placed in service in the qualified opportunity zone. If the tangible property had been so used or placed in service in the qualified opportunity zone before it is acquired by purchase, it must be substantially improved in order to satisfy the requirements of section 1400Z-2(d)(2)(D)(i)(II).


(D) *Example.* The following example illustrates the principles of paragraph (b)(3)(i)(A) of this section.


(*1*) *Facts.* On January 1, 2019, QOF A purchases from a developer a newly constructed hotel building located in a qualified opportunity zone for $10 million. The developer purchased a parcel of land in that qualified opportunity zone, and constructed the hotel building thereon, with the intent and expectation to sell the building to a QOF. As of the time of the purchase, the developer had not placed the hotel building in service in the qualified opportunity zone for purposes of depreciation. Other than the original use requirement, assume that the hotel building satisfies all requirements under section 1400Z-2(d)(2)(D). In addition, assume that, at the time of the purchase, the developer had no plan, intent, or expectation to repurchase the hotel building.


(*2*) *Analysis.* At the time of QOF A's purchase of the hotel building, the original use of the hotel building had not commenced because the developer had not yet placed the hotel building into service for purposes of depreciation in a qualified opportunity zone. See paragraph (b)(3)(i)(A) of this section. Therefore, the original use of the hotel building in the qualified opportunity zone in which the building is located is treated as commencing with QOF A. See paragraph (b)(3)(i)(A) of this section. As a result, the hotel building purchased by QOF A is treated as satisfying the original use requirement of section 1400Z-2(d)(2)(D)(i)(II).


(ii) *Lessee improvements to leased property.* Improvements made by a lessee to leased property satisfy the original use requirement in section 1400Z-2(d)(2)(D)(i)(II) as purchased property for the amount of the unadjusted cost basis under section 1012 of such improvements.


(iii) *Vacancy.* Solely for purposes of meeting the requirements of section 1400Z-2, real property, including land and buildings, is considered to be in a state of vacancy if the property is significantly unused. A building or land will be considered significantly unused if more than 80 percent of the building or land, as measured by the square footage of useable space, is not currently being used.


(iv) *Brownfield sites.* An eligible entity that purchases a parcel of land that is a brownfield site, as defined by section 101 of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601) (brownfield site), may treat all property composing the brownfield site (including the land and structures thereon) as satisfying the original use requirement of section 1400Z-2(d)(2)(D)(i)(II), if, within a reasonable period, the eligible entity makes investments in the brownfield site to ensure that all property composing the brownfield site meets basic safety standards for both human health and the environment.


(v) *Property involuntarily transferred to local government.* An eligible entity that purchases real property from a local government that the local government holds as the result of an involuntary transfer (including through abandonment, bankruptcy, foreclosure, or receivership) may treat all property composing the real property (including the land and structures thereon) as satisfying the original use requirement of section 1400Z-2(d)(2)(D)(i)(II).


(4) *Substantial improvement of tangible property acquired by purchase*—(i) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (b)(4)(iv) of this section, for purposes of paragraph (b)(2) of this section, tangible property is treated as substantially improved by an eligible entity only if it meets the requirements of section 1400Z-2(d)(2)(D)(ii) during the *30-month substantial improvement period.* The property has been substantially improved when the additions to basis of the property in the hands of the QOF exceed an amount equal to the adjusted basis of such property at the beginning of such 30-month period in the hands of the QOF (substantial improvement requirement).


(ii) *Treatment of property in the 30-month substantial improvement period.* For purposes of the *90-percent investment standard* under section 1400Z-2(d)(1), tangible property purchased, leased, or improved by a trade or business that is undergoing the substantial improvement process but has not yet been placed in service by the eligible entity or used in the eligible entity's trade or business is treated as satisfying the requirements of section 1400Z-2(d)(2)(D)(i) and paragraph (b)(2) of this section for the *30-month substantial improvement period* with respect to that property provided the eligible entity reasonably expects that the property will be substantially improved as defined in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section and used in the eligible entity's trade or business in a qualified opportunity zone by the end of such 30-month period. Tangible property described in the preceding sentence is not considered qualified opportunity zone business property for purposes of the special rule in section 1400Z-2(d)(3)(B) unless the tangible property is qualified opportunity zone business property for at least two years without regard to this paragraph (b)(4)(ii).


(iii) *Aggregation of original use property that improves the functionality of non-original use property*—(A) *General rule.* The cost of purchased property that would otherwise qualify as qualified opportunity zone business property may be taken into account in determining whether additions to the basis of non-original use property acquired by purchase satisfy the substantial improvement requirement under section 1400Z-2(d)(2)(D)(ii), so long as the purchased property is located in the same qualified opportunity zone (or a contiguous qualified opportunity zone) as the non-original use property, is used in the same trade or business as the non-original use property, and improves the functionality of the non-original use property.


(B) *Improvement of non-original use real property.* If an eligible entity chooses to apply this paragraph (b)(4)(iii) to non-original use real property, the eligible entity must improve the non-original use real property by more than an insubstantial amount within the meaning of paragraph (b)(4)(iv)(C) of this section.


(C) *Effect on purchased property.* If an eligible entity chooses to apply this paragraph (b)(4)(iii), the purchased property that would otherwise qualify as qualified opportunity zone business property will not be treated as original use property, and instead the basis of that purchased property will be taken into account in determining whether additions to the basis of the non-original use property satisfy the requirements under section 1400Z-2(d)(2)(D)(i)(II) and (d)(2)(D)(ii).


(D) *Examples.* The following examples illustrate the principles of paragraph (b)(4)(iii) of this section.


(*1*) *Example 1*—(*i*) *Facts.* On January 1, 2019, QOF A purchases the assets of a hotel business located in a qualified opportunity zone for $5 million. The purchased assets include land, a building, linens, furniture and other fixtures attached to the building. $1 million of the purchase price is allocated to land and the remaining $4 million is allocated to the building, furniture and fixtures. During the course of renovations over the 30-month substantial improvement period, the QOF spent $1 million replacing linens, mattresses and furniture, $500,000 on the purchase of new exercise equipment for a gym located in the hotel building, $1 million on renovations for a restaurant (including restaurant equipment) attached to the hotel, and $1.5 million on structural renovations to the hotel. The QOF chooses to apply paragraph (b)(4)(iii) of this section to determine whether the substantial improvement requirement in section 1400Z-2(d)(2)(D)(ii) is met.


(*ii*) *Analysis.* In order for the hotel to be considered qualified opportunity zone business property, QOF A must substantially improve the hotel as the hotel had previously been placed in service in the qualified opportunity zone. (QOF A was not required to substantially improve the land on which the hotel was located pursuant to paragraph (b)(4)(iv) of this section.) Because the amount of basis allocated to the hotel was $4 million, QOF A must expend $4 million to improve the hotel within the 30-month substantial improvement period provided in section 1400Z-2(d)(2)(D)(ii). The new linens, mattresses and furniture, new exercise equipment, and new restaurant equipment all qualify as original use assets under section 1400Z-2(d)(2)(D)(i)(II). QOF A also substantially improved the hotel, which was the asset that needed to be improved under section 1400Z-2(d)(2)(D)(i)(II). QOF A chose, at the start of the 30-month period, to include the costs of the newly purchased assets that improve the functionality of the hotel to the basis of the hotel. Thus, the cost of these items is eligible to be added to the hotel's basis pursuant to paragraph (b)(4)(iii) of this section. Therefore, QOF A has met the substantial improvement requirement under section 1400Z-2(d)(2)(D)(i)(II) by doubling its basis in the hotel and its fixtures within the 30-month substantial improvement period. The amounts spent replacing linens, mattresses, furniture, exercise equipment, and new restaurant equipment that were counted toward the substantial improvement requirement for the hotel are not considered original use assets for purposes of the *90-percent investment standard.*

(*2*) *Example 2*—(*i*) *Purchase of unrelated property.* The facts are the same as in paragraph (b)(4)(iii)(D)(*1*)(*i*) of this section, except that in addition to purchasing the hotel and the related land, QOF A also purchases an apartment building one block away from the hotel for $10 million. The apartment building is located in the same qualified opportunity zone as the hotel.


(*ii*) *Analysis.* QOF A may not include any improvements made to the apartment building, including purchased property that improves the functionality of the apartment building, to the basis of the hotel. QOF A may choose, under paragraph (b)(4)(iii) of this section, to include the purchased property that improves the functionality of the apartment building in the basis of the apartment building for purposes of the substantial improvement requirement under section 1400Z-2(d)(2)(D)(i)(II).


(iv) *Special rules for land and improvements on land*—(A) *Buildings located in a qualified opportunity zone.* In accordance with the rules set forth in this paragraph (b)(4)(iv)(A), if an eligible entity purchases a building located on a parcel of land within the geographic borders of a qualified opportunity zone, for purposes of section 1400Z-2(d)(2)(D)(ii), a substantial improvement to the building is measured by the eligible entity's additions to the basis of the building, as determined under section 1012.


(B) *Unimproved land.* Unimproved land that is within a qualified opportunity zone and acquired by purchase in accordance with section 1400Z-2(d)(2)(D)(i)(I) is not required to be substantially improved within the meaning of section 1400Z-2(d)(2)(D)(i)(II) and (d)(2)(D)(ii).


(C) *Exception for insubstantially improved land.* Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(4)(iv)(B) of this section, if the land is unimproved or minimally improved and the eligible entity purchases the land with an expectation or an intention to not improve the land by more than an insubstantial amount within 30 months after the date of purchase, paragraph (b)(4)(iv)(B) of this section does not apply with respect to such land and such land is not considered qualified opportunity zone business property unless it is substantially improved within the meaning of sections 1400Z-2(d)(2)(D)(i)(II) and (d)(2)(D)(ii). In determining whether an eligible entity had an expectation or an intention to improve the land by more than an insubstantial amount, improvements to the land by the eligible entity (including grading, clearing of the land, remediation of the contaminated land, or acquisition of related qualified opportunity zone business property that facilitates the use of the land in a trade or business of the eligible entity) will be taken into account.


(D) *Remediation of contaminated land.* Betterments to land within the meaning of § 1.263(a)-3(j)(1)(i) may be added to the basis of the purchased land and included for purposes of section 1400Z-2(d)(2)(D)(ii) if the betterments are paid for by the eligible entity.


(E) *Separate improvement to underlying land not required.* In determining whether the substantial improvement test under section 1400Z-2(d)(2)(D) has been met with respect to a building, there is no requirement that the eligible entity separately substantially improve the land upon which the building is located.


(v) *Aggregation of purchased buildings*—(A) *Substantial improvement requirement for eligible building group.* For purposes of applying the substantial improvement requirement under sections 1400Z-2(d)(2)(D)(i)(II) and 1400Z-2(d)(2)(D)(ii), an eligible entity may apply paragraph (b)(4)(v)(D) of this section with respect to two or more buildings located within a qualified opportunity zone or a single series of contiguous qualified opportunity zones, as described in paragraph (b)(4)(v)(B) or (C) of this section (eligible building group), respectively.


(B) *Eligible building group located entirely within parcel of land described in single deed.* All buildings comprising an eligible building group may be treated as a single property as that term is used in section 1400Z-2(d)(2)(D)(ii) (single property), if each building comprising the eligible building group is located entirely within the geographic borders of a parcel of land described in a single deed.


(C) *Eligible building group spanning contiguous parcels of land described in separate deeds.* An eligible entity may treat all buildings comprising an eligible building group located entirely within the geographic borders of contiguous parcels of land described in separate deeds as a single property to the extent each building is operated as part of one or more trades or businesses that—


(*1*) Are operated exclusively by the eligible entity;


(*2*) Share facilities or share significant centralized business elements, such as personnel, accounting, legal, manufacturing, purchasing, human resources, or information technology resources; and


(*3*) Are operated in coordination with, or reliance upon, one or more of the trades or businesses (for example, supply chain interdependencies or mixed-use facilities).


(D) *Calculation of aggregate building basis and additions to basis of single property*—(*1*) *In general.* For purposes of the substantial improvement requirement under section 1400Z-2(d)(2)(D)(ii), the amount of basis required to be added to the portion of an eligible building group treated as a single property equals the total amount of basis calculated by adding the basis of each building comprising the single property at the beginning of the 30-month period and additions to the basis of each building comprising the single property are aggregated to determine satisfaction of the substantial improvement requirement.


(*2*) *Aggregation of original use property that improves the functionality of single property.* In applying paragraph (b)(4)(v)(D)(*1*) of this section, purchased property that would otherwise qualify as qualified opportunity zone business property may be taken into account in determining whether additions to the basis of a single property described in paragraph (b)(4)(v)(B) or (C) of this section satisfy the substantial improvement requirement under section 1400Z-2(d)(2)(D)(ii).


(c) *Tangible property leased by an eligible entity.* In the case of tangible property with respect to which an eligible entity is a lessee—


(1) *Qualifying acquisition of possession.* The tangible property must be acquired by the eligible entity under a lease entered into after December 31, 2017.


(2) *Arms-length terms*—(i) *General rule.* The terms of the lease must be market rate (that is, the terms of the lease reflect common, arms-length market pricing in the locale that includes the qualified opportunity zone as determined under section 482 and all section 482 regulations in this chapter) at the time that the lease was entered into.


(ii) *Rebuttable presumption regarding unrelated persons.* There will be a rebuttable presumption that the terms of the lease were market rate for leases between persons not related within the meaning of section 1400Z-2(e)(2) (unrelated persons), and thus, the parties to the lease are not required to perform a section 482 analysis.


(iii) *Exception for state, local, and Indian tribal governments.* For purposes of this paragraph (c)(2), tangible property acquired by lease from a state or local government, or an Indian tribal government, is not considered tangible property acquired by lease from a related person within the meaning of section 1400Z-2(e)(2) (related person).


(3) *Additional requirements for tangible property leased from a related person.* If the lessor is a related person with respect to an eligible entity that is the lessee of tangible property, the requirements of paragraphs (c)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section, as applicable, must be satisfied in order for the tangible property to be treated as qualified opportunity zone business property.


(i) *Prepayments of not more than one year.* The lessee at no time makes any prepayment in connection with the lease relating to a period of use of the tangible property that exceeds 12 months.


(ii) *Purchase of other qualified opportunity zone business property.* In the case of leased tangible property that is personal property, if the original use of the leased tangible personal property in a qualified opportunity zone (within the meaning of paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section) does not commence with the lessee, the property is not qualified opportunity zone business property unless, during the relevant testing period (as defined in paragraph (c)(3)(iv) of this section), the lessee becomes the owner of tangible property that is qualified opportunity zone business property having a value not less than the value of that leased tangible personal property. There must be substantial overlap of the qualified opportunity zone(s) in which the owner of the tangible property so acquired uses it and the qualified opportunity zone(s) in which that person uses the leased tangible personal property.


(iii) *Original use of leased tangible property*—(A) *In general.* For purposes of paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section, the original use of leased tangible property in a qualified opportunity zone commences on the date any person first places the property in service in the qualified opportunity zone for purposes of depreciation (or first uses the property in the qualified opportunity zone in a manner that would allow depreciation or amortization if that person were the property's owner).


(B) *Used leased tangible property.* Used leased tangible personal property can satisfy the original use requirement if the property has not been previously so used or placed in service in the qualified opportunity zone.


(iv) *Relevant testing period.* For purposes of paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section, the *relevant testing period* is the period that begins on the date that the lessee receives possession under the lease of the leased tangible personal property and ends on the earlier of—


(A) The date 30-months after the date the lessee receives possession of the leased tangible personal property under the lease; or


(B) The last day of the term of the lease (within the meaning of § 1.1400Z2(d)-1(b)(4)(iii)(D)).


(4) *Plan, intent, or expectation for purchases not for fair market value.* In the case of real property that is leased by an eligible entity, if, at the time the lease is entered into, there was a plan, intent, or expectation for the real property to be purchased by the eligible entity for an amount of consideration other than the fair market value of the real property determined at the time of the purchase without regard to any prior lease payments, the leased real property is not qualified opportunity zone business property.


(d) *Holding period and use within a qualified opportunity zone of owned or leased tangible property*—(1) *In general.* In the case of tangible property that is owned or leased by an eligible entity, during substantially all of the eligible entity's holding period for the tangible property, substantially all of the use of the tangible property must be in a qualified opportunity zone.


(2) *Valuation of owned and leased property.* For purposes of the 70-percent use test in paragraph (d)(4) of this section, the value of owned and leased property is required to be determined in accordance with the valuation methodologies provided in § 1.1400Z2(d)-1(b), and such value in the case of leased tangible personal property is to be determined on the date the lessee receives possession of the tangible personal property under the lease.


(3) *Substantially all of an eligible entity's holding period for owned or leased tangible property*—(i) *In general.* For purposes of determining whether the holding period requirement in paragraph (d)(1) of this section is satisfied, the term *substantially all* means at least 90 percent. The holding period requirement is applied on a semiannual basis, based on the entire amount of time the eligible entity has owned or leased such property. Thus, on each semiannual testing date of the eligible entity, the tangible property satisfies the 90-percent qualified opportunity zone business property holding period requirement of section 1400Z-2(d)(2)(D)(i)(III) only if, during at least 90 percent of the period during which the QOF has owned or leased the property, the property has satisfied the 70-percent use test in paragraph (d)(4) of this section.


(ii) *Semiannual qualified opportunity zone business test.* For purposes of determining satisfaction of the 90-percent qualified opportunity zone business property holding period test described in paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section in the case of a QOF, the determination of whether property satisfies the 70-percent use test is made on a semiannual basis pursuant to section 1400Z-2(d)(1) and paragraph (d)(4) of this section.


(4) *Substantially all of the use of owned or leased tangible property in a qualified opportunity zone*—(i) *Qualified tangible property.* Tangible property used in a trade or business of an eligible entity satisfies the *substantially all* requirement of paragraph (d)(1) of this section if and only if the tangible property is qualified tangible property. Qualified tangible property is tangible property that satisfies the requirements of paragraph (d)(4)(ii), (iii) (subject to the limitation in paragraph (d)(4)(iv) of this section), or (v) of this section.


(ii) *70-percent use test.* Tangible property held by a trade or business is qualified tangible property to the extent, based on the number of days between two consecutive semiannual testing dates, not less than 70 percent of the total utilization of the tangible property by the trade or business occurs at a location within the geographic borders of a qualified opportunity zone (that is, the 70-percent use test).


(iii) *Safe harbor for tangible property utilized in rendering services inside and outside of a qualified opportunity zone.* Subject to the limitation described in paragraph (d)(4)(iv) of this section, tangible property utilized by a trade or business in rendering services both inside and outside of the geographic borders of a qualified opportunity zone may be treated as qualified tangible property if—


(A) The tangible property utilized in rendering the service directly generates gross income for the trade or business both inside and outside of the geographic borders of a qualified opportunity zone;


(B) The trade or business has an office or other facility located within the geographic borders of a qualified opportunity zone (QOZ office);


(C) The tangible property is operated by employees of the trade or business who—


(*1*) Regularly use a QOZ office of the trade or business in the course of carrying out their duties; and


(*2*) Are managed directly, actively, and substantially on a day-to-day basis by one or more employees of the trade or business who carry out their duties at a QOZ office; and


(D) The tangible property is not operated exclusively outside of the geographic borders of a qualified opportunity zone for a period longer than 14 consecutive days for the generation of gross income for the trade or business.


(iv) *Limitation.* For purposes of the *70-percent tangible property standard,* the safe harbor provided in paragraph (d)(4)(iii) of this section may not be used to treat more than 20 percent of the tangible property of the trade or business as qualified tangible property.


(v) *Safe harbor for tangible property owned by leasing businesses with QOZ offices.* Tangible property of a trade or business, the employees of which use a QOZ office of the trade or business to regularly lease such tangible property to customers of the trade or business, may be treated as qualified tangible property if—


(A) Consistent with the normal, usual, or customary conduct of the trade or business, when not subject to a lease to a customer of the trade or business, the tangible property is parked or otherwise stored at a QOZ office; and


(B) No lease under which a customer of the trade or business acquires possession of the tangible property is for a duration (including extensions) longer than 30 consecutive days.


(vi) *Use of tangible property in one or more qualified opportunity zones.* In accordance with paragraphs (d)(4)(ii) through (v) of this section, if qualified tangible property is utilized by the trade or business in one or more qualified opportunity zones, satisfaction of the 70-percent use test is determined by aggregating the number of days the tangible property is utilized by the trade or business in each qualified opportunity zone.


(vii) *Real property straddling a qualified opportunity zone.* For purposes of satisfying the requirements in this paragraph (d), the rules of § 1.1400Z2(d)-1(d)(3)(ix) apply to a QOF or qualified opportunity zone business for determining whether real property is situated in a qualified opportunity zone.


(viii) *Safe harbor for inventory in transit*—(A) *In general.* In determining whether tangible property is used in a qualified opportunity zone for purposes of applying the 70-percent use test under paragraph (d)(4) of this section, inventory (including raw materials) of a trade or business does not fail to be used in a qualified opportunity zone solely because the inventory is in transit—


(*1*) From a vendor to a facility of the trade or business that is in a qualified opportunity zone; or


(*2*) From a facility of the trade or business that is in a qualified opportunity zone to customers of the trade or business that are not located in a qualified opportunity zone.


(B) *No effect from certain events in transit.* The distance traveled by the inventory while it is in transit, or the fact that the inventory is briefly warehoused while in transit, does not affect the application of the safe harbor described in paragraph (d)(4)(viii) of this section.


(e) *Applicability dates*—(1) *In general.* The provisions of this section are applicable for taxable years beginning after March 13, 2020.


(2) *Prior periods.* With respect to the portion of a taxpayer's first taxable year ending after December 21, 2017, and for taxable years beginning after December 21, 2017, and on or before March 13, 2020, a taxpayer may choose either—


(i) To apply the section 1400Z-2 regulations, if applied in a consistent manner for all such taxable years (reliance by a taxpayer on paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section, § 1.1400Z2(a)-1(g)(2)(ii), § 1.1400Z2(b)-1(j)(2)(ii), § 1.1400Z2(d)-1(e)(2)(ii), or § 1.1400Z2(f)-1(d)(2)(ii), is disregarded solely for purposes of the consistency requirement under this paragraph (e)(2)(i)); or


(ii) To rely on the rules in proposed § 1.1400Z2(d)-1 contained in the notice of proposed rulemaking (REG-115420-18) published on October 29, 2018, as amplified by the notice of proposed rulemaking (REG-120186-18) published on May 1, 2019, but only if applied in a consistent manner for all such taxable years.



---

[N] [T.D. 9889, 85 FR 1986, Jan. 13, 2020; 85 FR 19085, Apr. 6, 2020]




