# ยง 515.3   Request for access to records.

(a) *How made and addressed.* Any individual may make a request to the Commission for access to records about him or herself. Such requests shall conform to the requirements of this section. The request may be made in person at 90 K Street NE., Suite 200, Washington, DC 20002 during the hours of 9 a.m. to 12 noon and 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday, in writing at NIGC Attn: Privacy Act Office, 1849 C Street NW., Mail Stop #1621, Washington, DC 20240, or via electronic mail addressed to *PARequests@nigc.gov.*

(b) *Description of records sought.* Each request for access to records must describe the records sought in enough detail to enable Commission personnel to locate the system of records containing them with a reasonable amount of effort. Whenever possible, the request should describe the records sought, the time periods in which the records were compiled, any tribal gaming facility with which they were associated, and the name or identifying number of each system of records in which the records are kept.


(c) *Agreement to pay fees.* Requests shall also include a statement indicating the maximum amount of fees the requester is willing to pay to obtain the requested information. The requester must send acknowledgment to the Privacy Act Officer indicating his/her willingness to pay the fees. Absent such an acknowledgment within the specified time frame, the request will be considered incomplete, no further work shall be done, and the request will be administratively closed.


(d) *Verification of identity.* When making a request for access to records the individual seeking access must provide verification of identity. The requester must provide a full name, current address, and date and place of birth. The request must be signed and must either be notarized or submitted under 28 U.S.C. 1746, which is a law that permits statements to be made under penalty of perjury as a substitute for notarization. In order to assist in the identification and location of requested records, a request may also, at the requester's option, include a social security number.


(e) *Verification of guardianship.* When making a request as a parent or guardian of a minor or as the guardian of someone determined by a court to be incompetent, for access to records about that individual, the request must establish:


(1) The identity of the individual who is the subject of the record by stating the name, current address, date and place of birth, and, at the requester's option, the social security number of the individual;


(2) The requester's own identity, as required in paragraph (d) of this section;


(3) That the requester is the parent or guardian of the individual and proof of such relationship by providing a birth certificate showing parentage or a court order establishing guardianship; and


(4) That the requester is acting on behalf of that individual in making the request.


(f) *Verification in the case of third party information requests.* Any individual who desires to have a record covered by this part disclosed to or mailed to another person may designate such person and authorize such person to act as his or her agent for that specific purpose. The authorization shall be in writing, signed by the individual whose record is requested, and notarized or witnessed as provided in paragraph (d) of this section.


(g) *In-person disclosures.* An individual to whom a record is to be disclosed in person, pursuant to this section, may have a person of his or her own choosing accompany him or her when the record is disclosed. If a requester is accompanied by another individual, the requester shall be required to authorize in writing any discussion of the records in the presence of the other person.



---

[N] [82 FR 8141, Jan. 24, 2017, as amended at 82 FR 34403, July 25, 2017]






