# § 110.250   St. Thomas Harbor, Charlotte Amalie, V.I.

(a) *The anchorage grounds*—(1) *Inner harbor anchorage.* Beginning at a point bearing 85°, 525 yards from the outer end of a pier at latitude 18°20′19″, longitude 64°56′26″ (approximate); thence 146°, 800 yards; thence 70°, 860 yards; thence 340°, 500 yards; and thence to the point of beginning. 


(2) *Outer harbor anchorage.* Beginning at Scorpion Rock lighted buoy No. 1 (latitude 18°19′25.6″, longitude 64°55′41.8″); thence 180°, 1,580 yards; thence 264°30′, 2,490 yards; thence due north 1,255 yards; thence due east to the southerly tip of Sprat Point, Water Island; thence to Cowell Point, Hassel Island; and thence to the point of beginning. 


(3) *East Gregerie Channel anchorage* (*general purpose*). Bounded on the northeast by Hassel Island; on the southeast by the northwest boundary of the outer harbor anchorage; on the southwest by Water Island; and on the northwest by a line running from Banana Point, Water Island, 55° to Hassel Island. 


(4) *Small-craft anchorage.* All the waters north of a line passing through the outer end of a pier at latitude 18°20′19″, longitude 64°56′26″ (approximate) and ranging 85°. 


(5) *Deep-draft anchorage.* A circular area having a radius of 400 yards with its center at latitude 18°19′12.2″, longitude 64°58′47.8″. 


(6) *Long Bay anchorage.* The waters of Long Bay bounded on the north by the southerly limit line of Anchorage E, on the west by the easterly limit line of Anchorage A to a point at latitude 18°20′18″, thence to latitude 18°20′13″, longitude 64°55′21″; and thence to the shoreline at latitude 18°20′15″, longitude 64°55′13″. 


(b) *The regulations.* (1) The outer harbor anchorage shall be used by vessels undergoing examination by quarantine, customs, immigration, and Coast Guard officers. Upon completion of these examinations, vessels shall move promptly to anchorage. This anchorage shall also be used by vessels having drafts too great to permit them to use the inner harbor anchorage. No vessel shall remain more than 48 hours in this anchorage without a permit from the Harbor Master. 


(2) The small-craft anchorage shall be used by small vessels undergoing examination and also by small vessels anchoring under permit from the Harbor Master. 


(3) The requirements of the Navy shall predominate in the deep-draft anchorage. When occupied by naval vessels all other vessels and craft shall remain clear of the area. When the area is not required for naval vessels, the Harbor Master may upon application made in advance assign other vessels to the area. Vessels so assigned and occupying the area shall move promptly upon notification by the Harbor Master. 


(4) The harbor regulations for the Port of St. Thomas, V.I. of the United States and approaches thereto, including all waters under its jurisdiction, as adopted by the Government of the Virgin Islands, will apply to the Long Bay Anchorage. 


(5) In addition, the Long Bay Anchorage is reserved for all types of small vessels, including sailing and motor pleasure craft, and such craft shall anchor in no other area except Anchorage E, in the northern portion of the harbor of Charlotte Amalie. 


(6) Floats for marking anchors in place will be allowed in the Long Bay anchorage; stakes or mooring piles are prohibited. 


(7) Vessels not more than 65 feet in length are not required to exhibit or carry anchor lights within the Long Bay anchorage, but must display them if emergency requires anchoring in any other part of the harbor. 


(8) No vessel may anchor in any of the St. Thomas Harbor Anchorages without a permit from the Harbor Master. 


(9) The Coast Guard Captain of the Port San Juan is hereby empowered, whenever the maritime or commercial interests of the United States so require, to shift the position of any vessel anchored within the Long Bay anchorage, and of any vessel which is so moored or anchored as to impede or obstruct vessel movement in the harbor, and to enforce all regulations of this section should the need arise. 



---

[N] [CGFR 67-46, 32 FR 17728, Dec. 12, 1967, as amended by USCG-2008-0179, 73 FR 35012, June 19, 2008]




