# § 486.102   Condition for coverage: Supervision by a qualified physician.

Portable X-ray services are provided under the supervision of a qualified physician. 


(a) *Standard—physician supervision.* The performance of the roentgenologic procedures is subject to the supervision of a physician who meets the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section and one of the following requirements is met: 


(1) The supervising physician owns the equipment and it is operated only by his employees, or 


(2) The supervising physician certifies annually that he periodically checks the procedural manuals and observes the operators' performance, that he has verified that equipment and personnel meet applicable Federal, State, and local licensure and registration requirements and that safe operating procedures are used. 


(b) *Standard—qualifications of the physician supervisor.* Portable X-ray services are provided under the supervision of a licensed doctor of medicine or licensed doctor of osteopathy who is qualified by advanced training and experience in the use of X-rays for diagnostic purposes, i.e., he (1) is certified in radiology by the American Board of Radiology or by the American Osteopathic Board of Radiology or possesses qualifications which are equivalent to those required for such certification, or (2) is certified or meets the requirements for certification in a medical specialty in which he has become qualified by experience and training in the use of X-rays for diagnostic purposes, or (3) specializes in radiology and is recognized by the medical community as a specialist in radiology. 



---

[N] [34 FR 388, Jan. 10, 1969. Redesignated at 42 FR 52826, Sept. 30, 1977. Further redesignated and amended at 60 FR 2326, Jan. 9, 1995; 60 FR 45086, Aug. 30, 1995]




