# § 660.19   Appeals process for catch monitors, observers, and provider permits.

(a) *Allowed appeals.* This section describes the procedure for appealing IADs described at §§ 660.17(g), 660.18(d) and (f), 660.140(h), 660.150(j), 660.160(g), 660.603(b)(3) for catch monitor decertification, observer decertification, provider permit expirations due to inactivity, and EM service provider permit denials. Any person whose interest is directly and adversely affected by an IAD may file a written appeal. For purposes of this section, such person will be referred to as the “applicant.”


(b)* Appeals process.* In cases where the applicant disagrees with the IAD, the applicant may appeal that decision. Final decisions on appeals of IADs will be made in writing by the Regional Administrator or designee acting on behalf of the Secretary of Commerce and will state the reasons therefore.


(1) *Submission of appeals.* (i) The appeal must be in writing and comply with this paragraph.


(ii) Appeals must be mailed or faxed to: National Marine Fisheries Service, West Coast Region, Sustainable Fisheries Division, ATTN: Appeals, 7600 Sand Point Way NE., Seattle, WA 98115; Fax: 206-526-6426; or delivered to National Marine Fisheries Service at the same address.


(2) *Timing of appeals.* The appeal must be filed within 30 calendar days after the IAD is issued. The IAD becomes the final decision of the Regional Administrator or designee acting on behalf of the Secretary of Commerce if no appeal is filed within 30 calendar days. The time period to submit an appeal begins with the date on the IAD. If the last day of the time period is a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday, the time period will extend to the close of business on the next business day.


(3) *Address of record.* The address used by the applicant in initial correspondence to NMFS concerning the application will be the address used by NMFS for the appeal. Notifications and correspondence associated with all actions affecting the applicant will be mailed to the address of record unless the applicant provides NMFS, in writing, an address change. NMFS bears no responsibility if NMFS sends a notification or correspondence to the address of record and it is not received because the applicant's actual address has changed without notification to NMFS.


(4) *Statement of reasons for appeals.* Applicants must submit a full written statement in support of the appeal, including a concise statement of the reasons the IAD determination has a direct and adverse effect on the applicant and should be reversed or modified. The appellate officer will limit his/her review to the issues stated in the appeal; all issues not set out in the appeal will be waived.


(5) *Decisions on appeals.* The Regional Administrator or designee will issue a final written decision on the appeal which is the final decision of the Secretary of Commerce.



---

[N] [80 FR 22285, Apr. 21, 2015, as amended at 84 FR 31159, June 28, 2019]




