# § 291.42   Section 41103 financial and traffic reporting.

(a) *General instructions.* Carriers operating under section 41103 certificates that are not subject to part 241 of this chapter shall file Form 291-A, “Statement of Operations for Section 41103 Operations”, Schedule T-100, “U.S. Air Carrier Traffic and Capacity Data by Nonstop Segment and On-Flight Market”, and Schedule P-12(a), “Fuel Consumption by Type of Service and Entity” with the Department's Bureau of Transportation Statistics (BTS). 


(1) A single copy of the BTS Form 291-A report shall be filed annually with the Office of Airline Information (OAI) for the year ended December 31, to be received on or before February 10 of the immediately following year. A single copy of the monthly BTS Schedule P-12(a) is due at OAI within 20 days after the end of each month. An electronic filing of the monthly Schedule T-100 is due at OAI within 30 days after the end of each month. Due dates falling on a Saturday, Sunday or Federal holiday will become effective on the next work day. 


(2) Reports required by this section shall be submitted to the Bureau of Transportation Statistics in a format specified in accounting and reporting directives issued by the Bureau of Transportation Statistics' Director of Airline Information.


(b) *Statement of Operations and Statistics Summary for section 41103 operations.* This statement shall include the following elements:


(1) Total operating revenue, categorized as follows:


(i) Transport revenues from the carriage of property in scheduled and nonscheduled service;


(ii) Transport revenue from the carriage of mail in scheduled and nonscheduled service; and 


(iii) Transport-related revenues.


(2) Total operating expenses;


(3) Operating profit or loss, computed by subtracting the total operating expenses from the total operating revenues; and 


(4) Net income, computed by subtracting the total operating and nonoperating expenses, including interest expenses and income taxes, from the total operating and nonoperating revenues.


(c) *Summary of traffic and capacity statistics.* This summary shall include the following elements:


(1) Total revenue ton-miles, which are the aircraft miles flown on each flight stage times the number of tons of revenue traffic carried on that stage. They shall be categorized as follows:


(i) Property; and 


(ii) Mail. 


(2) Revenue tons enplaned, reflecting the total revenue tons of cargo loaded on aircraft during the annual period; 


(3) Available ton-miles, reflecting the total revenue ton-miles available for all-cargo service during the annual period, and computed by multiplying aircraft miles flown on each flight stage by the number of tons of aircraft capacity available for that stage; 


(4) Aircraft miles flown, reflecting the total number of aircraft miles flown in cargo service during the annual period; 


(5) Aircraft departures performed, reflecting the total number of take-offs performed in cargo service during the annual period; and 


(6) Aircraft hours airborne, reflecting the aircraft hours of flight (from takeoff to landing) performed in cargo service during the annual period.



---

[N] [ER-1350, 48 FR 32757, July 19, 1983, as amended by Doc. No. 47582, 57 FR 38770, Aug. 27, 1992; 60 FR 43526, Aug. 22, 1995; 60 FR 66726, Dec. 26, 1995; 67 FR 49226, July 30, 2002; 75 FR 41585, July 16, 2010]




