# § 655.432   Submission of modified applications.

(a) *Review of a modified CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification.* Upon receipt of a response to a NOD, including any modifications, the CO will review the response. The CO may issue one or more additional NODs before issuing a decision. The employer's failure to comply with a NOD, including not responding in a timely manner or not providing all required documentation, will result in a denial of the *CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification.*

(b) *Acceptance of a modified CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification.* If the CO accepts the modification(s) to the *CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification,* the CO will issue a NOA to the employer and, if applicable, the employer's attorney or agent.


(c) *Denial of modified CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification.* If the modified *CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification* does not cure the deficiencies cited in the NOD(s) or otherwise fails to satisfy the criteria required for certification, the CO will, at its discretion, either send a second NOD or deny the *CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification* in accordance with the labor certification determination provisions in § 655.453.


(d) *Appeal from denial of modified CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification.* The procedures for appealing a denial of a modified *CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification* are the same as for appealing the denial of a nonmodified *CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification,* outlined in § 655.461.


(e) *Post acceptance modifications.* Notwithstanding the decision to accept the *CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification,* the CO may require modifications to the *CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification* at any time before the final determination to grant or deny the *CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification* if the CO determines that the job offer does not contain the minimum benefits, wages, and working conditions set forth in § 655.441. The employer must make such modifications, or the application will be denied under § 655.453. The employer must provide all workers recruited in connection with the job opportunity in the *CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification* with a copy of the modified *CW-1 Application for Temporary Employment Certification,* as approved by the CO, no later than the date work commences.




