# ยง 21.382   Training and staff development for personnel providing assistance under Chapter 31.

(a) *General.* VA shall provide a program of ongoing professional training and development for staff of the Veteran Readiness and Employment (VR&E) Service engaged in providing rehabilitation services under chapter 31. The objective of such training shall be to insure that rehabilitation services for disabled veterans are provided in accordance with the most advanced knowledge, methods, and techniques available for the rehabilitation of disabled persons. The areas in which training and development services may be provided to enhance staff skills include: 


(1) Evaluation and assessment:


(2) Medical aspects of disability;


(3) Psychological aspects of disability;


(4) Counseling theory and techniques;


(5) Personal and vocational adjustment;


(6) Occupational information;


(7) Placement processes and job development; 


(8) Special considerations in rehabilitation of the seriously disabled; 


(9) Independent living services;


(10) Resources for training and rehabilitation; and 


(11) Utilizing research findings and professional publications.


(b) *Training and development resources.* For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section VA may:


(1) Employ the services of consultants; 


(2) Make grants to and contract with public and private agencies, including institutions of higher learning, to conduct workshop and training activities;


(3) Authorize individual training at institutions of higher learning and other appropriate facilities; and


(4) Utilize chapter 41 of title 5, U.S.C., and related instructions to provide training and staff development activities on a group and individual basis.


(c) *Interagency coordination.* VA shall coordinate with the Commissioner of the Rehabilitation Services Administration and the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment in planning and carrying out personnel training in areas of mutual programmatic concern.



---

[N] [49 FR 40814, Oct. 18, 1984, as amended at 87 FR 8743, Feb. 16, 2022]




