# § 205.290   Temporary variances.

(a) Temporary variances from the requirements in §§ 205.203 through 205.207, 205.236 through 205.240 and 205.270 through 205.272 may be established by the Administrator for the following reasons:


(1) Natural disasters declared by the Secretary; 


(2) Damage caused by drought, wind, flood, excessive moisture, hail, tornado, earthquake, fire, or other business interruption; and 


(3) Practices used for the purpose of conducting research or trials of techniques, varieties, or ingredients used in organic production or handling. 


(b) A State organic program's governing State official or certifying agent may recommend in writing to the Administrator that a temporary variance from a standard set forth in subpart C of this part for organic production or handling operations be established: *Provided,* That, such variance is based on one or more of the reasons listed in paragraph (a) of this section. 


(c) The Administrator will provide written notification to certifying agents upon establishment of a temporary variance applicable to the certifying agent's certified production or handling operations and specify the period of time it shall remain in effect, subject to extension as the Administrator deems necessary. 


(d) A certifying agent, upon notification from the Administrator of the establishment of a temporary variance, must notify each production or handling operation it certifies to which the temporary variance applies. 


(e) Temporary variances will not be granted for any practice, material, or procedure prohibited under § 205.105. 



---

[N] [65 FR 80637, Dec. 21, 2000, as amended at 75 FR 7194, Feb. 17, 2010]




