# ยง 155.1020   QHP issuer rate and benefit information.

(a) *Receipt and posting of rate increase justification.* The Exchange must ensure that a QHP issuer submits a justification for a rate increase for a QHP prior to the implementation of such an increase, except for multi-State plans, for which the U.S. Office of Personnel Management will provide a process for the submission of rate increase justifications. The Exchange must ensure that the QHP issuer has prominently posted the justification on its Web site as required under ยง 156.210. To ensure consumer transparency, the Exchange must also provide access to the justification on its Internet Web site described in ยง 155.205(b).


(b) *Rate increase consideration.* (1) The Exchange must consider rate increases in accordance with section 1311(e)(2) of the Affordable Care Act, which includes consideration of the following:


(i) A justification for a rate increase prior to the implementation of the increase;


(ii) Recommendations provided to the Exchange by the State in accordance with section 2794(b)(1)(B) of the PHS Act; and


(iii) Any excess of rate growth outside the Exchange as compared to the rate of such growth inside the Exchange.


(2) This paragraph does not apply to multi-State plans for which the U.S. Office of Personnel Management will provide a process for rate increase consideration.


(c) *Benefit and rate information.* The Exchange must receive the information described in this paragraph, at least annually, from QHP issuers for each QHP in a form and manner to be specified by HHS. Information about multi-State plans may be provided in a form and manner determined by the U.S. Office of Personnel Management. The information identified in this paragraph is:


(1) Rates;


(2) Covered benefits; and


(3) Cost-sharing requirements.



---

[N] [77 FR 18467, Mar. 27, 2012, as amended at 77 FR 31515, May 29, 2012]




