# ยง 139.15   Decks.

(a) The requirements in paragraphs (b) through (i) of this section apply to the discharge of washdown and runoff from decks, well decks, and bulkhead areas, including but not limited to precipitation, condensation, seawater spray and wash over, and flooding, as well as waters pumped from below deck on a barge.


(b) Coamings or drip pans must be used for machinery that is expected to leak or otherwise release oil on the deck; accumulated oil must be collected.


(c) Where required by an applicable international treaty or convention or the Secretary, the vessel must be fitted with and use physical barriers (e.g., spill rails, scuppers and scupper plugs) during any washdown.


(d) Control measures must be used to minimize the introduction of on-deck debris, garbage, residue, spills, floating solids, visible foam, halogenated phenolic compounds, dispersants, and surfactants into deck washdown and runoff.


(e) Vessel decks must be kept in broom clean condition whenever the vessel is underway and prior to any deck washdown.


(f) Discharges from deck washdowns must be minimized in port.


(g) Any soap, cleaner, or detergent used for deck washdown must be minimally-toxic, phosphate-free, and biodegradable.


(h) Barges that discharge water pumped from below deck must minimize the contact of below deck condensation with oily or toxic materials and any materials containing hydrocarbons.


(i) Additional standards applicable to discharges from decks when a vessel is operating in federally-protected waters are contained in ยง 139.40(f).






