# § 530.202   Definitions.

In this subpart:


*Agency* means an executive agency as defined at 5 U.S.C. 105.


*Aggregate compensation* means the total of—


(1) Basic pay received as an employee of the executive branch or as an employee outside the executive branch to whom the General Schedule applies;


(2) Premium pay under 5 U.S.C. chapter 53, subchapter IV;


(3) Premium pay under 5 U.S.C. chapter 55, subchapter V;


(4) Incentive awards and performance-based cash awards under 5 U.S.C. chapters 45 and 53;


(5) Recruitment and relocation incentives under 5 U.S.C. 5753 and retention incentives under 5 U.S.C. 5754;


(6) Extended assignment incentives under 5 U.S.C. 5757; 


(7) Supervisory differentials under 5 U.S.C. 5755;


(8) Post differentials under 5 U.S.C. 5925;


(9) Danger pay allowances under 5 U.S.C. 5928;


(10) Post differentials based on environmental conditions for employees stationed in nonforeign areas under 5 U.S.C. 5941(a)(2);


(11) Physicians' comparability allowances under 5 U.S.C. 5948;


(12) Continuation of pay under 5 U.S.C. 8118;


(13) Lump-sum payments in excess of the aggregate limitation on pay as required by § 530.204; and


(14) Other similar payments authorized under title 5, United States Code, excluding—


(i) Overtime pay under the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended, and 5 CFR part 551;


(ii) Severance pay under 5 U.S.C. 5595;


(iii) Lump-sum payments for accumulated and accrued annual leave upon separation under 5 U.S.C. 5551 or 5552;


(iv) Back pay awarded to an employee under 5 U.S.C. 5596 because of an unjustified personnel action;


(v) Student loan repayments under 5 U.S.C. 5379; and


(vi) Nonforeign area cost-of-living allowances under 5 U.S.C. 5941(a)(1).


*Aggregate limitation* means the limitation on aggregate compensation received in any given calendar year as established by 5 U.S.C. 5307. For an executive branch employee (including employees in Senior Executive Service positions paid under 5 U.S.C. 5383 and employees in senior-level or scientific or professional positions paid under 5 U.S.C. 5376), a General Schedule employee in the legislative branch, or General Schedule employee in the judicial branch (excluding those paid under 28 U.S.C. 332(f), 603, and 604), the limitation on aggregate compensation is equal to the rate for level I of the Executive Schedule in effect at the end of the applicable calendar year. For an employee in a Senior Executive Service position paid under 5 U.S.C. 5383 and an employee in a senior-level or scientific or professional position paid under 5 U.S.C. 5376 covered by an applicable performance appraisal system that has been certified under 5 CFR part 430, subpart D, the limitation on aggregate compensation is equal to the total annual compensation payable to the Vice President under 3 U.S.C. 104 at the end of a calendar year.


*Basic pay* means the total amount of pay received at a rate fixed by law or administrative action for the position held by an employee, including any special rate under 5 CFR part 530, subpart C, or any locality-based comparability payment under 5 CFR part 531, subpart F, or other similar payment under other legal authority, before any deductions. *Basic pay* includes night and environmental differentials for prevailing rate employees under 5 U.S.C. 5343(f) and 5 CFR 532.511. *Basic pay* excludes additional pay of any other kind.


*Discretionary payment* means a payment an agency has discretion to make to an employee. Payments that are authorized to be made to an employee under the terms of a service agreement or preauthorized to be made to an employee at a regular fixed rate each pay period are not *discretionary payments.*

*Employee* has the meaning given that term in 5 U.S.C. 2105.


*Estimated aggregate compensation* means the agency's projection of the aggregate compensation an employee actually would receive during a calendar year but for application of the aggregate limitation to future payments. This projection must be based upon known factors. Estimated aggregate compensation includes—


(1) The total amount of basic pay the employee will receive during the calendar year;


(2) Any lump-sum payment of excess amounts from a previous calendar year, as described in § 530.204;


(3) The total amount of nondiscretionary payments the employee would be entitled to receive during the calendar year; and


(4) The total amount of discretionary payments the employee would be authorized to receive during the calendar year.



---

[N] [69 FR 70360, Dec. 6, 2004, as amended at 70 FR 25739, May 13, 2005; 72 FR 67837, Dec. 3, 2007]




