# ยง 973.104   Definitions.

*Alternative transportation systems* means modes of transportation other than private vehicles, including methods to improve system performance such as transportation demand management, congestion management, and intelligent transportation systems. These mechanisms help reduce the use of private vehicles and thus improve overall efficiency of transportation systems and facilities.


*Elements* means the components of a bridge important from a structural, user, or cost standpoint. Examples are decks, joints, bearings, girders, abutments, and piers.


*Federal Lands Highway Program (FLHP)* means a federally funded program established in 23 U.S.C. 204 to address transportation needs of Federal and Indian lands.


*Indian lands bridge management system (BMS)* means a systematic process used by the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) or Indian Tribal Governments (ITGs) for analyzing bridge data to make forecasts and recommendations, and provides the means by which bridge maintenance, rehabilitation, and replacement programs and policies may be efficiently considered.


*Indian lands congestion management system (CMS)* means a systematic process used by the BIA or ITGs for managing congestion that provides information on transportation system performance and alternative strategies for alleviating congestion and enhancing the mobility of persons and goods to levels that meet Federal, State and local needs.


*Indian lands pavement management system (PMS)* means a systematic process used by the BIA or ITGs that provides information for use in implementing cost-effective pavement reconstruction, rehabilitation, and preventive maintenance programs and policies, and that results in pavement designed to accommodate current and forecasted traffic in a safe, durable, and cost-effective manner.


*Indian lands safety management system (SMS)* means a systematic process used by the BIA or ITGs with the goal of reducing the number and severity of traffic accidents by ensuring that all opportunities to improve roadway safety are identified, considered, implemented and evaluated, as appropriate, during all phases of highway planning, design, construction, operation and maintenance by providing information for selecting and implementing effective highway safety strategies and projects.


*Indian reservation road (IRR)* means a public road that is located within or provides access to an Indian reservation or Indian trust land or restricted Indian land that is not subject to fee title alienation without the approval of the Federal government, or Indian and Alaska Native villages, groups, or communities in which Indians and Alaskan Natives reside, whom the Secretary of the Interior has determined are eligible for services generally available to Indians under Federal laws specifically applicable to Indians.


*Indian Reservation Roads (IRR) Program* means a part of the FLHP established in 23 U.S.C. 204 to address the transportation needs of federally recognized ITGs.


*Indian Reservation Roads transportation improvement program (IRRTIP)* means a multi-year, financially constrained list by year, State, and tribe of IRR-funded projects selected by ITGs that are programmed for construction in the next 3 to 5 years.


*Indian Reservation Roads transportation plan* means a document setting out a tribe's long-range transportation priorities and needs. The IRR transportation plan, which can be developed by either the tribe or the BIA on behalf of that tribe, is developed through the IRR transportation planning process pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 204 and 25 CFR part 170.


*Indian Tribal Government (ITG)* means a duly formed governing body of an Indian or Alaska Native Tribe, Band, Nation, Pueblo, Village, or Community that the Secretary of the Interior acknowledges to exist as an Indian tribe pursuant to the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994, 25 U.S.C. 479a.


*Indian tribe (tribe)* means any Indian tribe, nation, band, pueblo, rancheria, colony, or community, including any Alaska Native Village, or regional or village corporation as defined or established under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act which is federally recognized by the U.S. government for special programs and services provided by the Secretary of the Interior to Indians because of their status as Indians.


*Intelligent transportation system (ITS)* means electronics, communications, or information processing used singly or in combination to improve the efficiency and safety of a surface transportation system.


*Life-cycle cost analysis* means an evaluation of costs incurred over the life of a project allowing a comparative analysis between or among various alternatives. Life-cycle cost analysis promotes consideration of total cost, to include maintenance and operation expenditures. Comprehensive life-cycle cost analysis includes all economic variables essential to the evaluation: Safety costs associated with maintenance and rehabilitation projects, agency capital cost, and life-cycle maintenance costs.


*Operations* means those activities associated with managing, controlling, and regulating highway traffic.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Transportation.


*Serviceability* means the degree to which a bridge provides satisfactory service from the point of view of its users.


*State* means any one of the fifty States, the District of Columbia, or Puerto Rico.


*Transportation facilities* means roads, streets, bridges, parking areas, transit vehicles, and other related transportation infrastructure.




