# § 351.5   Conditions of eligibility for certification service; review of applications.

(a) To be eligible for certification service under the regulations in this part, the operator of a rendering plant must demonstrate that: 


(1) He operates a rendering plant which will receive materials derived from inspected and passed carcasses, or parts of carcasses, of animals that did not die otherwise than by slaughter under inspection, (i.e., not “dead animals”); and such source materials will be rendered at the plant into technical animal fat eligible for export, or storage for export, in accordance with the regulations in this part; 


(2) The source materials and the rendered technical animal fat described in paragraph (a)(1) will be identified and kept separated at all times from other products; and 


(3) He will comply with the applicable regulations in this part. 


(b) To be eligible for certification service under the regulations in this part, the operator of a storage facility must demonstrate that: 


(1) He operates a storage facility that will receive for storage certified technical animal fat shipped directly from a certified rendering plant for storage for export and he will keep such shipments identified and separated from other products that are not certified, and he will receive such fat only if it is accompanied by MP Form 85, as required by § 351.17. 


(2) He will comply with the applicable regulations in this part. 


(c) Each applicant for certification service must file with the Administrator, with the application for service, a written description of the procedures to be used for receiving, identifying, processing, storing, and otherwise handling technical animal fat, and materials for use in the preparation thereof, at the plant or storage facility involved, and for shipping technical animal fat from the plant or facility and storing and exporting such technical animal fat, and a written description of the shipping, receiving, and inventory records maintained for technical animal fat. 


(d) The Administrator will determine, on the basis of all information available to him, whether the arrangements at the plant or storage facility are such as will assure that certifications of technical animal fat will be correct, and, if so, will grant the application for certification service. An applicant will be given an opportunity to present his views prior to refusal of the service. 



---

[N] [40 FR 58627, Dec. 18, 1975, as amended at 41 FR 12637, Mar. 26, 1976; 47 FR 746, Jan. 7, 1982]




