# § 1005.103   Definitions.

The following definitions apply throughout this part:


*Acquisition Cost* means the sum of the sales price or construction cost for a property and the cost of allowable repairs or improvements for the same property, less any unallowable sales concession(s). For the purposes of this definition, the term “sales concession” means an inducement to purchase a property paid by the seller to consummate a sales transaction.


*Amortization* means the calculated schedule of repayment of a Section 184 Guaranteed Loan in full, through structured, regular payments of principal and interest within a certain time frame.


*Amortization Schedule* means the document generated at the time of loan approval outlining the Borrower's schedule of payments of principal and interest for the life of the loan and the unpaid principal balance with and without the financed Upfront Loan Guarantee Fee, where applicable.


*Annual Loan Guarantee Fee* means a fee calculated on an annual basis and paid in monthly installments by the Borrower, which is collected by the Servicer and remitted to HUD for the purposes of financing the Indian Housing Loan Guarantee Fund.


*BIA* means the United States Department of Interior, Bureau of Indian Affairs.


*Borrower* means every individual on the mortgage application. For the purposes of servicing the loan, Borrower refers to every original Borrower who signed the note and their heirs, executors, administrators, assigns, and approved substitute Borrowers. Borrowers include Tribes and TDHEs.


*Claim* means the Servicer's application to HUD for payment of benefits under the Loan Guarantee Certificate for a Section 184 Guaranteed Loan.


*Conflict of Interest* means any party to the transaction who has a direct or indirect personal business or financial relationship sufficient to appear that it may cause partiality or influence the transaction, or both.


*Date of Default* means the day after the Borrower's obligation to make a loan payment or perform an obligation under the terms of the loan.


*Day* means calendar day, except where the term “business day” is used.


*Default* means when the Borrower has failed to make a loan payment or perform an obligation under the terms of the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan.


*Direct Guarantee Lender* means a Lender approved by HUD under § 1005.21 to Originate, underwrite, close, service, purchase, hold, or sell Section 184 Guaranteed Loans.


*Eligible Nonprofit Organization* means a nonprofit organization established under Tribal law or organization of the type described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as an organization exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of the Code, which has:


(1) Two years' experience as a provider of low- or moderate-income housing;


(2) A voluntary board; and


(3) No part of its net earnings inuring to the benefit of any member, founder, contributor or individual.


*Financial Statements* means audited financial statements or other financial records as required by HUD.


*Firm Commitment* means a commitment by HUD to reserve funds, for a specified period of time, to guarantee a Loan under the Section 184 Program, when a Loan for a specific Borrower and property meets standards as set forth in subpart D of this part.


*First Legal Action* means the first notice or filing required by applicable law for any judicial or non-judicial foreclosure process.


*Good and Marketable Title* means title that contains exceptions or restrictions, if any, which are permissible under subpart D of this part; and any objections to title that have been waived by HUD or otherwise cleared by HUD; and any discrepancies have been resolved to ensure the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan is in first lien position. In the case of Section 184 Guaranteed Loans on Trust Land, evidence of Good and Marketable Title must be reported in the Title Status Report issued by the BIA, or other HUD approved document issued by the Tribe, as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance and the document evidences the property interest rights.


*Holder* means an entity that is named on the Promissory Note and any successor or assigns for the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan and has the right and responsibilities to enforce the Section 184 requirements and the Holder's interests arising under the mortgage or deed of trust.


*Identity of Interest* means a sales transaction between family members, business partners, or other business affiliates.


*Indian* means a person who is recognized as being an Indian or Alaska Native by a federally recognized Indian Tribe, a regional or village corporation as defined in the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, or a State recognized Tribe eligible to receive assistance under Title I of the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 (NAHASDA).


*Indian Family* means one or more persons maintaining a household where at least one Borrower is an Indian.


*Indian Housing Loan Guarantee Fund* or *Fund* means a fund established at the U.S. Department of Treasury for the purpose of providing loan guarantees under the Section 184 Program.


*Lease or Leasehold Interest* means a written contract between a Borrower and a Tribe, entity, or individual, whereby the Borrower, as lessee, is granted a right of possession of Trust Land for a specific purpose and duration, according to applicable Tribal, Federal or State Law.


*Lender Applicant* means:


(1) A financial institution engaging in mortgage lending that is eligible to participate in the Section 184 Program under § 1005.203 or § 1005.205;


(2) The financial institution has applied or will apply to HUD for approval to participate in the Section 184 Program; and


(3) Has not received approval from HUD.


*Loan* means a loan application or mortgage loan that has not received a Loan Guarantee Certificate.


*Loan Guarantee Certificate* means evidence of endorsement by HUD of a Loan for guarantee issued under § 1005.525.


*Loss Mitigation* means an alternative to foreclosure offered by the Holder that is made available through the Servicer to the Borrower.


*Non-Direct Guarantee Lender* means a Lender approved by HUD under § 1005.207 who has selected a level of program participation limited to Originating Section 184 Guaranteed Loans.


*Month* or *monthly* means thirty days in a month, regardless of the actual number of days.


*Origination, originate,* or *originating* means the process by which the Lender accepts a new loan application along with all required supporting documentation. Origination does not include underwriting the loan.


*Owner of Record* means, for fee simple properties, the owner of the property as shown on the records of the recorder in the county where the property is located. For Trust Land Properties, the current lessee or owner of property, as shown on the Title Status Report provided by the BIA or other HUD approved document issued by the Tribe, as prescribed by Section 184 Program Guidance and the document evidences the property interest rights.


*Partial Payment* means a Borrower payment of any amount less than the full amount due under the terms of the Section 184 Guaranteed Loan at the time the payment is tendered.


*Property* means one to four-family dwellings that meet the requirements for standard housing under § 1005.419 and located on Trust Land, land located in an Indian or Alaska Native area, or Section 184 Approved Program Area.


*Section 184 Guaranteed Loan* is a Loan that has received a Loan Guarantee Certificate.


*Section 184 Approved Program Area* means the Indian Housing Block Grant (IHBG) Formula Area as defined in 24 CFR 1000.302 or any other area approved by HUD, in which HUD may guarantee Loans.


*Section 184 Program Guidance* means administrative guidance documents that may be issued by HUD, including but not limited to _Federal Register_ documents, Dear Lender Letters, handbooks, guidebooks, manuals, and user guides.


*Security* means any collateral authorized under existing Tribal, Federal, or State law.


*Servicer* means a Direct Guarantee Lender that chooses to service Section 184 Guaranteed Loans or a Non-Direct Guarantee Lender or a financial institution approved by HUD under § 1005.705 to service Section 184 Guaranteed Loans.


*Sponsor* means an approved Direct Guarantee Lender that enters into a relationship with a Non-Direct Guarantee Lender or another Direct Guarantee Lender (Sponsored Entity), whereby the Sponsor provides underwriting, closing, purchasing, and holding of Section 184 Guaranteed Loans and may provide servicing.


*Sponsored Entity* means a Non-Direct Guarantee or Direct Guarantee Lender operating under an agreement with a Sponsor to Originate Section 184 Guaranteed Loans in accordance with § 1005.213.


*Tax-exempt Bond Financing* means financing which is funded in whole or in part by the proceeds of qualified mortgage bonds described in section 143 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or any successor section, on which the interest is exempt from Federal income tax. The term does not include financing by qualified veterans' mortgage bonds as defined in section 143(b) of the Code.


*Title Status Report* is defined in 25 CFR 150.2, as may be amended.


*Tribe* means any Indian Tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community of Indians, including any Alaska Native village or regional or village corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601, *et seq.*), that is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians pursuant to the Indian Self Determination and Education Assistance Act of 1975.


*Tribally Designated Housing Entity (TDHE)* means any entity as defined in the Indian Housing Block Grant Program under the Native American Housing Assistance and Self Determination Act at 25 U.S.C. 4103(22).


*Trust Land* means land title which is held by the United States for the benefit of an Indian or Tribe or title which is held by a Tribe subject to a restriction against alienation imposed by the United States or the Tribe. This definition shall include but is not limited to Tribal, individual, assigned trust, or restricted fee lands.


*Upfront Loan Guarantee Fee* means a fee, paid by the Borrower at closing, collected by the Direct Guarantee Lender and remitted to HUD for the purposes of financing the Indian Housing Loan Guarantee Fund.




