# § 63.101   Definitions.

(a) The following terms as used in subparts F, G, and H of this part shall have the meaning given them in subpart A of this part: Act, actual emissions, Administrator, affected source, approved permit program, commenced, compliance date, construction, continuous monitoring system, continuous parameter monitoring system, effective date, emission standard, emissions averaging, EPA, equivalent emission limitation, existing source, Federally enforceable, fixed capital cost, hazardous air pollutant, lesser quantity, major source, malfunction, new source, owner or operator, performance evaluation, performance test, permit program, permitting authority, reconstruction, relevant standard, responsible official, run, standard conditions, State, and stationary source. 






(b) All other terms used in this subpart and subparts G and H of this part shall have the meaning given them in the Act and in this section. If the same term is defined in subpart A of this part and in this section, it shall have the meaning given in this section for purposes of subparts F, G, and H of this part.


*Air oxidation reactor* means a device or vessel in which air, or a combination of air and oxygen, is used as an oxygen source in combination with one or more organic reactants to produce one or more organic compounds. Air oxidation reactor includes the product separator and any associated vacuum pump or steam jet.


*Ancillary activities* means boilers and incinerators (not used to comply with the emission limits of subparts F, G, and H of this part), chillers and refrigeration systems, and other equipment and activities that are not directly involved (*i.e.,* they operate within a closed system and materials are not combined with process fluids) in the processing of raw materials or the manufacturing of a product or isolated intermediate.


*Annual average concentration,* as used in the wastewater provisions, means the flow-weighted annual average concentration, as determined according to the procedures specified in § 63.144(b).


*Annual average flow rate,* as used in the wastewater provisions, means the annual average flow rate, as determined according to the procedures specified in § 63.144(c).


*Automated monitoring and recording system* means any means of measuring values of monitored parameters and creating a hard copy or computer record of the measured values that does not require manual reading of monitoring instruments and manual transcription of data values. Automated monitoring and recording systems include, but are not limited to, computerized systems and strip charts.


*Batch operation* means a noncontinuous operation in which a discrete quantity or batch of feed is charged into a unit operation within a chemical manufacturing process unit and processed at one time. Batch operation includes noncontinuous operations in which the equipment is fed intermittently or discontinuously. Addition of raw material and withdrawal of product do not occur simultaneously in a batch operation. After each batch operation, the equipment is generally emptied before a fresh batch is started.


*Batch process* means a process in which the equipment is fed intermittently or discontinuously. Processing then occurs in this equipment after which the equipment is generally emptied. Examples of industries that use batch processes include pharmaceutical production and pesticide production.


*Batch process vent* means gaseous venting to the atmosphere from a batch operation.


*Batch product-process equipment train* means the collection of equipment (e.g., connectors, reactors, valves, pumps, etc.) configured to produce a specific product or intermediate by a batch process.


*Bench-scale batch process* means a batch process (other than a research and development facility) that is operated on a small scale, such as one capable of being located on a laboratory bench top. This bench-scale equipment will typically include reagent feed vessels, a small reactor and associated product separator, recovery and holding equipment. These processes are only capable of producing small quantities of product.


*Boiler* means any enclosed combustion device that extracts useful energy in the form of steam and is not an incinerator. Boiler also means any industrial furnace as defined in 40 CFR 260.10.


*Bottoms receiver* means a tank that collects distillation bottoms before the stream is sent for storage or for further downstream processing.


*Breakthrough* means the time when the level of HAP or TOC, measured at the outlet of the first bed, has been detected is at the highest concentration allowed to be discharged from the adsorber system and indicates that the adsorber bed should be replaced.


*By compound* means by individual stream components, not carbon equivalents.


*By-product* means a chemical that is produced coincidentally during the production of another chemical.


*Car-seal* means a seal that is placed on a device that is used to change the position of a valve (*e.g.,* from opened to closed) in such a way that the position of the valve cannot be changed without breaking the seal.


*Chemical manufacturing process unit or CMPU* means the equipment assembled and connected by pipes or ducts to process raw materials and to manufacture an intended product. A chemical manufacturing process unit consists of more than one unit operation. For the purpose of this subpart, chemical manufacturing process unit includes air oxidation reactors and their associated product separators and recovery devices; reactors and their associated product separators and recovery devices; distillation units and their associated distillate receivers and recovery devices; associated unit operations; associated recovery devices; and any feed, intermediate and product storage vessels and pressure vessels, product transfer racks, and connected ducts and piping. A chemical manufacturing process unit includes pumps, compressors, agitators, pressure relief devices, sampling connection systems, open-ended valves or lines, valves, connectors, instrumentation systems, and control devices or systems. A chemical manufacturing process unit is identified by its primary product. Ancillary activities are not considered a process or part of any process. Quality assurance/quality control laboratories are not considered part of any process.


*Closed biological treatment process* means a tank or surface impoundment where biological treatment occurs and air emissions from the treatment process are routed to either a control device by means of a closed vent system or to a fuel gas system by means of hard-piping. The tank or surface impoundment has a fixed roof, as defined in this section, or a floating flexible membrane cover that meets the requirements specified in § 63.134.


*Closed-loop system* means an enclosed system that returns process fluid to the process and is not vented to the atmosphere except through a closed-vent system.


*Closed-purge system* means a system or combination of system and portable containers, to capture purged liquids. Containers must be covered or closed when not being filled or emptied.


*Closed vent system* means a system that is not open to the atmosphere and is composed of piping, ductwork, connections, and, if necessary, flow inducing devices that transport gas or vapor from an emission point to a control device.


*Combustion device* means an individual unit of equipment, such as a flare, incinerator, process heater, or boiler, used for the combustion of organic hazardous air pollutant emissions.


*Compliance date* means the dates specified in § 63.100(k) or (l)(3) for process units subject to subpart F of this part; the dates specified in § 63.190(e) for process units subject to subpart I of this part. For sources subject to other subparts in this part that reference this subpart, compliance date will be defined in those subparts. However, the compliance date for § 63.170 shall be no later than 3 years after the effective date of those subparts unless otherwise specified in such other subparts.


*Connector* means flanged, screwed, or other joined fittings used to connect two pipe lines or a pipe line and a piece of equipment. A common connector is a flange. Joined fittings welded completely around the circumference of the interface are not considered connectors for the purpose of this regulation. For the purpose of reporting and recordkeeping, connector means joined fittings that are not inaccessible, glass, or glass-lined as described in § 63.174(h).


*Container,* as used in the wastewater provisions, means any portable waste management unit that has a capacity greater than or equal to 0.1 m
3 in which a material is stored, transported, treated, or otherwise handled. Examples of containers are drums, barrels, tank trucks, barges, dumpsters, tank cars, dump trucks, and ships.


*Continuous record* means documentation, either in hard copy or computer readable form, of data values measured at least once every 15 minutes and recorded at the frequency specified in § 63.152(f) or (g).


*Continuous recorder* means a data recording device that either records an instantaneous data value at least once every 15 minutes or records 15-minute or more frequent block average values.


*Continuous seal* means a seal that forms a continuous closure that completely covers the space between the wall of the storage vessel and the edge of the floating roof. A continuous seal may be a vapor-mounted, liquid-mounted, or metallic shoe seal. A continuous seal may be constructed of fastened segments so as to form a continuous seal.


*Continuous vapor processing system* means a vapor processing system that treats total organic compound vapors collected from tank trucks or railcars on a demand basis without intermediate accumulation in a vapor holder.


*Control device* means any combustion device, recovery device, or recapture device. Such equipment includes, but is not limited to, absorbers, carbon adsorbers, condensers, incinerators, flares, boilers, and process heaters. For process vents, recapture devices are considered control devices but recovery devices are not considered control devices, and for a steam stripper, a primary condenser is not considered a control device.


*Co-product* means a chemical that is produced during the production of another chemical.


*Cover,* as used in the wastewater provisions, means a device or system which is placed on or over a waste management unit containing wastewater or residuals so that the entire surface area is enclosed to minimize air emissions. A cover may have openings necessary for operation, inspection, and maintenance of the waste management unit such as access hatches, sampling ports, and gauge wells provided that each opening is closed when not in use. Examples of covers include a fixed roof installed on a wastewater tank, a lid installed on a container, and an air-supported enclosure installed over a waste management unit.


*Dioxins and furans* means total tetra-through octachlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans.


*Distillate receiver* means overhead receivers, overhead accumulators, reflux drums, and condenser(s) including ejector-condenser(s) associated with a distillation unit.


*Distillation unit* means a device or vessel in which one or more feed streams are separated into two or more exit streams, each exit stream having component concentrations different from those in the feed stream(s). The separation is achieved by the redistribution of the components between the liquid and the vapor phases by vaporization and condensation as they approach equilibrium within the distillation unit. Distillation unit includes the distillate receiver, reboiler, and any associated vacuum pump or steam jet.


*Double block and bleed system* means two block valves connected in series with a bleed valve or line that can vent the line between the two block valves.


*Duct work* means a conveyance system such as those commonly used for heating and ventilation systems. It is often made of sheet metal and often has sections connected by screws or crimping. Hard-piping is not ductwork.


*Emission point* means an individual process vent, storage vessel, transfer rack, wastewater stream, or equipment leak.


*Empty or emptying* means the removal of the stored liquid from a storage vessel. Storage vessels where stored liquid is left on the walls, as bottom clingage, or in pools due to bottom irregularities are considered empty. Lowering of the stored liquid level, so that the floating roof is resting on its legs, as necessitated by normal vessel operation (for example, when changing stored material or when transferring material out of the vessel for shipment) is not considered emptying.


*Enhanced biological treatment system or enhanced biological treatment process* means an aerated, thoroughly mixed treatment unit(s) that contains biomass suspended in water followed by a clarifier that removes biomass from the treated water and recycles recovered biomass to the aeration unit. The mixed liquor volatile suspended solids (biomass) is greater than 1 kilogram per cubic meter throughout each aeration unit. The biomass is suspended and aerated in the water of the aeration unit(s) by either submerged air flow or mechanical agitation. A thoroughly mixed treatment unit is a unit that is designed and operated to approach or achieve uniform biomass distribution and organic compound concentration throughout the aeration unit by quickly dispersing the recycled biomass and the wastewater entering the unit.


*Equipment leak* means emissions of organic hazardous air pollutants from a connector, pump, compressor, agitator, pressure relief device, sampling connection system, open-ended valve or line, valve, surge control vessel, bottoms receiver, or instrumentation system in organic hazardous air pollutant service as defined in this section.


*Equipment* means each pump, compressor, agitator, pressure relief device, sampling connection system, open-ended valve or line, valve, connector, surge control vessel, bottoms receiver, and instrumentation system in organic hazardous air pollutant service; and any control devices or systems required by this subpart.


*Ethylene production unit* means a chemical manufacturing process unit in which ethylene and/or propylene are produced by separation from petroleum refining process streams or by subjecting hydrocarbons to high temperatures in the presence of steam. The ethylene process unit includes the separation of ethylene and/or propylene from associated streams such as a C_4_ product, pyrolysis gasoline, and pyrolysis fuel oil. The ethylene process does not include the manufacture of SOCMI chemicals such as the production of butadiene from the C_4_ stream and aromatics from pyrolysis gasoline.


*External floating roof* means a pontoon-type or double-deck-type cover that rests on the liquid surface in a storage vessel or waste management unit with no fixed roof.


*Fill* or *filling* means the introduction of organic hazardous air pollutant into a storage vessel or the introduction of a wastewater stream or residual into a waste management unit, but not necessarily to complete capacity.


*First attempt at repair* means to take action for the purpose of stopping or reducing leakage of organic material to the atmosphere, followed by monitoring as specified in § 63.180(b) and (c), as appropriate, to verify whether the leak is repaired, unless the owner or operator determines by other means that the leak is not repaired.


*Fixed roof* means a cover that is mounted on a waste management unit or storage vessel in a stationary manner and that does not move with fluctuations in liquid level.


*Flame zone* means the portion of the combustion chamber in a boiler or process heater occupied by the flame envelope.


*Flexible operation unit* means a chemical manufacturing process unit that manufactures different chemical products periodically by alternating raw materials or operating conditions. These units are also referred to as campaign plants or blocked operations.


*Floating roof* means a cover consisting of a double deck, pontoon single deck, internal floating cover or covered floating roof, which rests upon and is supported by the liquid being contained, and is equipped with a closure seal or seals to close the space between the roof edge and waste management unit or storage vessel wall.


*Flow indicator* means a device which indicates whether gas flow is, or whether the valve position would allow gas flow to be, present in a line.


*Fuel gas* means gases that are combusted to derive useful work or heat.


*Fuel gas system* means the offsite and onsite piping and flow and pressure control system that gathers gaseous stream(s) generated by onsite operations, may blend them with other sources of gas, and transports the gaseous stream for use as fuel gas in combustion devices or in in-process combustion equipment such as furnaces and gas turbines either singly or in combination.


*Group 1 process vent* means, before July 15, 2027, a process vent for which the vent stream flow rate is greater than or equal to 0.005 standard cubic meter per minute, the total organic HAP concentration is greater than or equal to 50 parts per million by volume, and the total resource effectiveness index value, calculated according to § 63.115, is less than or equal to 1.0. On and after July 15, 2027, Group 1 process vent means a process vent that emits greater than or equal to 1.0 pound per hour of total organic HAP.


*Group 1 storage vessel* means a storage vessel that meets the criteria for design storage capacity and stored-liquid maximum true vapor pressure specified in table 5 to subpart G of this part for storage vessels at existing sources, and in table 6 to subpart G of this part for storage vessels at new sources.


*Group 1 transfer rack* means a transfer rack that annually loads greater than or equal to 0.65 million liter of liquid products that contain organic hazardous air pollutants with a rack weighted average vapor pressure greater than or equal to 10.3 kilopascals.


*Group 1 wastewater stream* means a wastewater stream consisting of process wastewater as defined in this section at an existing or new source that meets the criteria for Group 1 status in § 63.132(c) for table 9 compounds and/or a wastewater stream consisting of process wastewater at a new source that meets the criteria for Group 1 status in § 63.132(d) for table 8 compounds.


*Group 2 process vent* means, before July 15, 2027, a process vent for which the vent stream flow rate is less than 0.005 standard cubic meter per minute, the total organic HAP concentration is less than 50 parts per million by volume or the total resource effectiveness index value, calculated according to § 63.115, is greater than 1.0. On and after July 15, 2027, Group 2 process vent means a process vent that emits less than 1.0 pound per hour of total organic HAP.


*Group 2 storage vessel* means a storage vessel that does not meet the definition of a Group 1 storage vessel.


*Group 2 transfer rack* means a transfer rack that does not meet the definition of Group 1 transfer rack.


*Group 2 wastewater stream* means any process wastewater stream that does not meet the definition of a Group 1 wastewater stream.


*Halogenated vent stream* or *halogenated stream* means a vent stream from a process vent or transfer operation determined to have a mass emission rate of halogen atoms contained in organic compounds of 0.45 kilograms per hour or greater determined by the procedures presented in § 63.115(d)(2)(v).


*Halogens* and *hydrogen halides* means hydrogen chloride (HCl), chlorine (Cl_2_), hydrogen bromide (HBr), bromine (Br_2_), and hydrogen fluoride (HF).


*Hard-piping* means pipe or tubing that is manufactured and properly installed using good engineering judgment and standards such as American National Standards Institute (ANSI) B31-3 (see § 63.14 for ANSI contact information).


*Heat exchange system* means a device or collection of devices used to transfer heat from process fluids to water without intentional direct contact of the process fluid with the water (*i.e.,* non-contact heat exchanger) and to transport and/or cool the water in a closed-loop recirculation system (cooling tower system) or a once-through system (*e.g.,* river or pond water). For closed-loop recirculation systems, the heat exchange system consists of a cooling tower, all CMPU heat exchangers that are in organic HAP service, as defined in this subpart, serviced by that cooling tower, and all water lines to and from these process unit heat exchangers. For once-through systems, the heat exchange system consists of all heat exchangers that are in organic HAP service, as defined in this subpart, servicing an individual CMPU and all water lines to and from these heat exchangers. Sample coolers or pump seal coolers are not considered heat exchangers for the purpose of this definition and are not part of the heat exchange system. Intentional direct contact with process fluids results in the formation of a wastewater.


*Impurity* means a substance that is produced coincidentally with the primary product or is present in a raw material. An impurity does not serve a useful purpose in the production or use of the primary product and is not isolated.


*In ethylene oxide service* means the following:


(i) For equipment leaks, any equipment that contains or contacts a fluid (liquid or gas) that is at least 0.1 percent by weight of ethylene oxide. If information exists that suggests ethylene oxide could be present in equipment, the equipment is considered to be “in ethylene oxide service” unless the procedures specified in § 63.109 are performed to demonstrate that the equipment does not meet the definition of being “in ethylene oxide service”. Examples of information that could suggest ethylene oxide could be present in equipment, include calculations based on safety data sheets, material balances, process stoichiometry, or previous test results provided the results are still relevant to the current operating conditions.


(ii) For heat exchange systems, any heat exchange system in a process that cools process fluids (liquid or gas) that are 0.1 percent or greater by weight of ethylene oxide. If knowledge exists that suggests ethylene oxide could be present in a heat exchange system, then the heat exchange system is considered to be “in ethylene oxide service” unless the procedures specified in § 63.109 are performed to demonstrate that the heat exchange system does not meet the definition of being “in ethylene oxide service”. Examples of information that could suggest ethylene oxide could be present in a heat exchange system, include calculations based on safety data sheets, material balances, process stoichiometry, or previous test results provided the results are still relevant to the current operating conditions.


(iii) For process vents, each Group 1 and Group 2 process vent in a process that, when uncontrolled, contains a concentration of greater than or equal to 1 ppmv undiluted ethylene oxide, and when combined, the sum of all these process vents within the process would emit uncontrolled, ethylene oxide emissions greater than or equal to 5 lb/yr (2.27 kg/yr). If information exists that suggests ethylene oxide could be present in a Group 1 or Group 2 process vent, then the Group 1 or Group 2 process vent is considered to be “in ethylene oxide service” unless an analysis is performed as specified in § 63.109 to demonstrate that the Group 1 or Group 2 process vent does not meet the definition of being “in ethylene oxide service”. Examples of information that could suggest ethylene oxide could be present in a Group 1 or Group 2 process vent, include calculations based on safety data sheets, material balances, process stoichiometry, or previous test results provided the results are still relevant to the current operating conditions.


(iv) For storage vessels, storage vessels of any capacity and vapor pressure storing a liquid that is at least 0.1 percent by weight of ethylene oxide. If knowledge exists that suggests ethylene oxide could be present in a storage vessel, then the storage vessel is considered to be “in ethylene oxide service” unless the procedures specified in § 63.109 are performed to demonstrate that the storage vessel does not meet the definition of being “in ethylene oxide service”. The exemption for “vessels storing organic liquids that contain organic hazardous air pollutants only as impurities” listed in the definition of “storage vessel” in this section does not apply for storage vessels that may be in ethylene oxide service. Examples of information that could suggest ethylene oxide could be present in a storage vessel, include calculations based on safety data sheets, material balances, process stoichiometry, or previous test results provided the results are still relevant to the current operating conditions.


(v) For wastewater streams, any wastewater stream that contains total annual average concentration of ethylene oxide greater than or equal to 1 parts per million by weight at any flow rate. If knowledge exists that suggests ethylene oxide could be present in a wastewater stream, then the wastewater stream is considered to be “in ethylene oxide service” unless sampling and analysis is performed as specified in § 63.109 to demonstrate that the wastewater stream does not meet the definition of being “in ethylene oxide service”. Examples of information that could suggest ethylene oxide could be present in a wastewater stream, include calculations based on safety data sheets, material balances, process stoichiometry, or previous test results provided the results are still relevant to the current operating conditions.


*In food/medical service* means that a piece of equipment in organic hazardous air pollutant service contacts a process stream used to manufacture a Food and Drug Administration regulated product where leakage of a barrier fluid into the process stream would cause any of the following:


(i) A dilution of product quality so that the product would not meet written specifications,


(ii) An exothermic reaction which is a safety hazard,


(iii) The intended reaction to be slowed down or stopped, or


(iv) An undesired side reaction to occur.


*In gas/vapor service* means that a piece of equipment in organic hazardous air pollutant service contains a gas or vapor at operating conditions.


*In heavy liquid service* means that a piece of equipment in organic hazardous air pollutant service is not in gas/vapor service or in light liquid service.


*In light liquid service* means that a piece of equipment in organic hazardous air pollutant service contains a liquid that meets the following conditions:


(i) The vapor pressure of one or more of the organic compounds is greater than 0.3 kilopascals at 20 °C,


(ii) The total concentration of the pure organic compounds constituents having a vapor pressure greater than 0.3 kilopascals at 20 °C is equal to or greater than 20 percent by weight of the total process stream, and


(iii) The fluid is a liquid at operating conditions.


Note 1 to *In light liquid service:* Vapor pressures may be determined by the methods described in § 60.485(e)(1) of this chapter.


*In liquid service* means that a piece of equipment in organic hazardous air pollutant service is not in gas/vapor service.


*In organic hazardous air pollutant* or *in organic HAP service* means that a piece of equipment or heat exchange system either contains or contacts a fluid (liquid or gas) that is at least 5 percent by weight of total organic HAP's as determined according to the provisions of § 63.180(d). The provisions of § 63.180(d) also specify how to determine that a piece of equipment is not in organic HAP service. For purposes of the definition of “heat exchange system”, the term “equipment” in § 63.180(d) includes heat exchange systems.


*In vacuum service* means that equipment is operating at an internal pressure which is at least 5 kilopascals below ambient pressure.


*In volatile organic compound* or *in VOC service* means, for the purposes of subpart H of this part, that:


(i) The piece of equipment contains or contacts a process fluid that is at least 10 percent VOC by weight (see § 60.2 of this chapter for the definition of VOC, and § 60.485(d) of this chapter to determine whether a piece of equipment is not in VOC service); and


(ii) The piece of equipment is not in heavy liquid service as defined in § 60.481 of this chapter.


*Incinerator* means an enclosed combustion device that is used for destroying organic compounds. Auxiliary fuel may be used to heat waste gas to combustion temperatures. Any energy recovery section present is not physically formed into one manufactured or assembled unit with the combustion section; rather, the energy recovery section is a separate section following the combustion section and the two are joined by ducts or connections carrying flue gas. The above energy recovery section limitation does not apply to an energy recovery section used solely to preheat the incoming vent stream or combustion air.


*Individual drain system* means the stationary system used to convey wastewater streams or residuals to a waste management unit or to discharge or disposal. The term includes hard-piping, all process drains and junction boxes, together with their associated sewer lines and other junction boxes, manholes, sumps, and lift stations, conveying wastewater streams or residuals. A segregated stormwater sewer system, which is a drain and collection system designed and operated for the sole purpose of collecting rainfall runoff at a facility, and which is segregated from all other individual drain systems, is excluded from this definition.


*Initial start-up* means the first time a new or reconstructed source begins production, or, for equipment added or changed as described in § 63.100(l) or (m), the first time the equipment is put into operation. Initial start-up does not include operation solely for testing equipment. For purposes of subpart G of this part, initial start-up does not include subsequent start-ups (as defined in this section) of chemical manufacturing process units following malfunctions or shutdowns or following changes in product for flexible operation units or following recharging of equipment in batch operation. For purposes of subpart H of this part, initial start-up does not include subsequent start-ups (as defined in this section) of process units (as defined in § this section) following malfunctions or process unit shutdowns.


*In-situ sampling systems* means nonextractive samplers or in-line samplers.


*Instrumentation system* means a group of equipment components used to condition and convey a sample of the process fluid to analyzers and instruments for the purpose of determining process operating conditions (*e.g.,* composition, pressure, flow, etc.). Valves and connectors are the predominant type of equipment used in instrumentation systems; however, other types of equipment may also be included in these systems. Only valves nominally 0.5 inches and smaller, and connectors nominally 0.75 inches and smaller in diameter are considered instrumentation systems for the purposes of subpart H of this part. Valves greater than nominally 0.5 inches and connectors greater than nominally 0.75 inches associated with instrumentation systems are not considered part of instrumentation systems and must be monitored individually.


*Intermittent vapor processing system* means a vapor processing system that employs an intermediate vapor holder to accumulate total organic compound vapors collected from tank trucks or railcars, and treats the accumulated vapors only during automatically controlled cycles.


*Internal floating roof* means a cover that rests or floats on the liquid surface (but not necessarily in complete contact with it) inside a storage vessel or waste management unit that has a permanently affixed roof.


*Junction box* means a manhole or access point to a wastewater sewer line or a lift station.


*Liquid-mounted seal* means a foam- or liquid-filled seal mounted in contact with the liquid between the wall of the storage vessel or waste management unit and the floating roof. The seal is mounted continuously around the circumference of the vessel or unit.


*Liquids dripping* means any visible leakage from the seal including dripping, spraying, misting, clouding, and ice formation. Indications of liquid dripping include puddling or new stains that are indicative of an existing evaporated drip.


*Loading cycle* means the time period from the beginning of filling a tank truck or railcar until flow to the control device ceases, as measured by the flow indicator.


*Loading rack* means a single system used to fill tank trucks and railcars at a single geographic site. Loading equipment and operations that are physically separate (i.e., do not share common piping, valves, and other equipment) are considered to be separate loading racks.


*Maintenance wastewater* means wastewater generated by the draining of process fluid from components in the chemical manufacturing process unit into an individual drain system prior to or during maintenance activities. Maintenance wastewater can be generated during planned and unplanned shutdowns and during periods not associated with a shutdown. Examples of activities that can generate maintenance wastewaters include descaling of heat exchanger tubing bundles, cleaning of distillation column traps, draining of low legs and high point bleeds, draining of pumps into an individual drain system, and draining of portions of the chemical manufacturing process unit for repair.


*Maximum true vapor pressure* means the equilibrium partial pressure exerted by the total organic HAP's in the stored or transferred liquid at the temperature equal to the highest calendar-month average of the liquid storage or transfer temperature for liquids stored or transferred above or below the ambient temperature or at the local maximum monthly average temperature as reported by the National Weather Service for liquids stored or transferred at the ambient temperature, as determined:


(i) In accordance with methods described in API MPMS 19.2 (incorporated by reference as specified in § 63.14); or


(ii) As obtained from standard reference texts; or


(iii) As determined by the ASTM D2879-23 (incorporated by reference as specified in § 63.14); or


(iv) Any other method approved by the Administrator.


*Metallic shoe seal* or *mechanical shoe seal* means metal sheets that are held vertically against the wall of the storage vessel by springs, weighted levers, or other mechanisms and connected to the floating roof by braces or other means. A flexible coated fabric (envelope) spans the annular space between the metal sheet and the floating roof.


*Non-automated monitoring and recording system* means manual reading of values measured by monitoring instruments and manual transcription of those values to create a record. Non-automated systems do not include strip charts.


*Nonrepairable* means that it is technically infeasible to repair a piece of equipment from which a leak has been detected without a process unit shutdown.


*Oil-water separator* or *organic-water separator* means a waste management unit, generally a tank used to separate oil or organics from water. An oil-water or organic-water separator consists of not only the separation unit but also the forebay and other separator basins, skimmers, weirs, grit chambers, sludge hoppers, and bar screens that are located directly after the individual drain system and prior to additional treatment units such as an air flotation unit, clarifier, or biological treatment unit. Examples of an oil-water or organic-water separator include, but are not limited to, an American Petroleum Institute separator, parallel-plate interceptor, and corrugated-plate interceptor with the associated ancillary equipment.


*On-site* or *On site* means, with respect to records required to be maintained by this subpart, that the records are stored at a location within a major source which encompasses the affected source. On-site includes, but is not limited to, storage at the chemical manufacturing process unit to which the records pertain, or storage in central files elsewhere at the major source.


*Open biological treatment process* means a biological treatment process that is not a closed biological treatment process as defined in this section.


*Open-ended valve or line* means any valve, except pressure relief valves, having one side of the valve seat in contact with process fluid and one side open to atmosphere, either directly or through open piping.


*Operating permit* means a permit required by 40 CFR part 70 or 71.


*Organic hazardous air pollutant* or *organic HAP* means one of the chemicals listed in table 2 of this subpart.


*Organic monitoring device* means a unit of equipment used to indicate the concentration level of organic compounds exiting a recovery device based on a detection principle such as infra-red, photoionization, or thermal conductivity.


*Petroleum refining process,* also referred to as a *petroleum refining process unit,* means a process that for the purpose of producing transportation fuels (such as gasoline and diesel fuels), heating fuels (such as fuel gas, distillate, and residual fuel oils), or lubricants separates petroleum or separates, cracks, or reforms unfinished derivatives. Examples of such units include, but are not limited to, alkylation units, catalytic hydrotreating, catalytic hydrorefining, catalytic hydrocracking, catalytic reforming, catalytic cracking, crude distillation, and thermal processes.


*Plant site* means all contiguous or adjoining property that is under common control, including properties that are separated only by a road or other public right-of-way. Common control includes properties that are owned, leased, or operated by the same entity, parent entity, subsidiary, or any combination thereof.


*Point of determination* means each point where process wastewater exits the chemical manufacturing process unit. This subpart and subpart G of this part allows point of determination of the characteristics of a wastewater stream:


(i) At the point of determination or


(ii) Downstream of the point of determination if corrections are made for changes in flow rate and annual average concentration of table 8 or table 9 compounds as determined in § 63.144. Such changes include losses by air emissions; reduction of annual average concentration or changes in flow rate by mixing with other water or wastewater streams; and reduction in flow rate or annual average concentration by treating or otherwise handling the wastewater stream to remove or destroy hazardous air pollutants.


*Point of transfer* means:


(i) If the transfer is to an off-site location for control, the point where the conveyance crosses the property line; or


(ii) If the transfer is to an on-site location not owned or operated by the owner or operator of the source, the point where the conveyance enters the operation or equipment of the transferee.


*Polymerizing monomer* means a molecule or compound usually containing carbon and of relatively low molecular weight and simple structure (*e.g.,* hydrogen cyanide, acrylonitrile, styrene), which is capable of conversion to polymers, synthetic resins, or elastomers by combination with itself due to heat generation caused by a pump mechanical seal surface, contamination by a seal fluid (*e.g.,* organic peroxides or chemicals that will form organic peroxides), or a combination of both with the resultant polymer buildup causing rapid mechanical seal failure.


*Pressure release* means the emission of materials resulting from the system pressure being greater than the set pressure of the pressure relief device. This release can be one release or a series of releases over a short time period.


*Pressure relief device or valve* means a valve, rupture disk, or similar device used only to release an unplanned, nonroutine discharge of gas from process equipment in order to avoid safety hazards or equipment damage. A pressure relief device discharge can result from an operator error, a malfunction such as a power failure or equipment failure, or other unexpected cause. Such devices include conventional, spring-actuated relief valves, balanced bellows relief valves, pilot-operated relief valves, rupture disks, and breaking, buckling, or shearing pin devices. Devices that are actuated either by a pressure of less than or equal to 2.5 pounds per square inch gauge or by a vacuum are not pressure relief devices.


*Pressure-assisted multi-point flare* means a flare system consisting of multiple flare burners in staged arrays whereby the vent stream pressure is used to promote mixing and smokeless operation at the flare burner tips. Pressure-assisted multi-point flares are designed for smokeless operation at velocities up to Mach = 1 conditions (*i.e.,* sonic conditions), can be elevated or at ground level, and typically use cross-lighting for flame propagation to combust any flare vent gases sent to a particular stage of flare burners.


*Pressure vessel* means a storage vessel that is used to store liquids or gases and is designed not to vent to the atmosphere as a result of compression of the vapor headspace in the pressure vessel during filling of the pressure vessel to its design capacity.


*Primary fuel* means the fuel that provides the principal heat input to the device. To be considered primary, the fuel must be able to sustain operation without the addition of other fuels.


*Process heater* means a device that transfers heat liberated by burning fuel directly to process streams or to heat transfer liquids other than water.


*Process unit* means a chemical manufacturing process unit as defined in subpart F of this part, a process subject to the provisions of subpart I of this part, or a process subject to another subpart in this part that references this subpart.


*Process unit shutdown* means a work practice or operational procedure that stops production from a process unit or part of a process unit during which it is technically feasible to clear process material from a process unit or part of a process unit consistent with safety constraints and during which repairs can be effected. An unscheduled work practice or operational procedure that stops production from a process unit or part of a process unit for less than 24 hours is not a process unit shutdown. An unscheduled work practice or operational procedure that would stop production from a process unit or part of a process unit for a shorter period of time than would be required to clear the process unit or part of the process unit of materials and start up the unit, and would result in greater emissions than delay of repair of leaking components until the next scheduled process unit shutdown, is not a process unit shutdown. The use of spare equipment and technically feasible bypassing of equipment without stopping production are not process unit shutdowns.


*Process vent* means the point of discharge to the atmosphere (or the point of entry into a control device, if any) of a gas stream if the gas stream has the characteristics specified in § 63.107(b) through (h), or meets the criteria specified in § 63.107(i). For purposes of §§ 63.113 through 63.118, all references to the characteristics of a process vent (e.g., flow rate, total HAP concentration, or TRE index value) shall mean the characteristics of the gas stream.


*Process wastewater* means wastewater which, during manufacturing or processing, comes into direct contact with or results from the production or use of any raw material, intermediate product, finished product, by-product, or waste product. Examples are product tank drawdown or feed tank drawdown; water formed during a chemical reaction or used as a reactant; water used to wash impurities from organic products or reactants; water used to cool or quench organic vapor streams through direct contact; and condensed steam from jet ejector systems pulling vacuum on vessels containing organics.


*Process wastewater stream* means a stream that contains process wastewater.


*Product* means a compound or chemical which is manufactured as the intended product of the chemical manufacturing process unit. By-products, isolated intermediates, impurities, wastes, and trace contaminants are not considered products.


*Product separator* means phase separators, flash drums, knock-out drums, decanters, degassers, and condenser(s) including ejector-condenser(s) associated with a reactor or an air oxidation reactor.


*Product tank drawdown* means any material or mixture of materials discharged from a product tank for the purpose of removing water or other contaminants from the product tank.


*Product tank,* as used in the wastewater provisions, means a stationary unit that is designed to contain an accumulation of materials that are fed to or produced by a process unit, and is constructed primarily of non-earthen materials (*e.g.,* wood, concrete, steel, plastic) which provide structural support. This term has the same meaning as a product storage vessel.


*Rack-weighted average partial pressure* means the throughput weighted average of the average maximum true vapor pressure of liquids containing organic HAP transferred at a transfer rack. The rack-weighted average partial pressure shall be calculated using the equation below:


*Reactor* means a device or vessel in which one or more chemicals or reactants, other than air, are combined or decomposed in such a way that their molecular structures are altered and one or more new organic compounds are formed. Reactor includes the product separator and any associated vacuum pump or steam jet.


*Recapture device* means an individual unit of equipment capable of and used for the purpose of recovering chemicals, but not normally for use, reuse, or sale. For example, a recapture device may recover chemicals primarily for disposal. Recapture devices include, but are not limited to, absorbers, carbon adsorbers, and condensers.


*Recovery device* means an individual unit of equipment capable of and normally used for the purpose of recovering chemicals for fuel value (*i.e.,* net positive heating value), use, reuse or for sale for fuel value, use, or reuse. Examples of equipment that may be recovery devices include absorbers, carbon adsorbers, condensers, oil-water separators or organic-water separators, or organic removal devices such as decanters, strippers, or thin-film evaporation units. For purposes of the monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements of subparts G and H of this part, recapture devices are considered recovery devices.


*Reference control technology for process vents* means a combustion device or recapture device used to reduce organic hazardous air pollutant emissions by 98 percent, or to an outlet concentration of 20 parts per million by volume.


*Reference control technology for storage vessels* means an internal floating roof meeting the specifications of § 63.119(b), an external floating roof meeting the specifications of § 63.119(c), an external floating roof converted to an internal floating roof meeting the specifications of § 63.119(d), or a closed-vent system to a control device achieving 95-percent reduction in organic HAP emissions. For purposes of emissions averaging, these four technologies are considered equivalent.


*Reference control technology for transfer racks* means a combustion device, recapture device, or recovery device used to reduce organic hazardous air pollutants emissions by 98 percent, or to an outlet concentration of 20 parts per million by volume; or a vapor balancing system.


*Reference control technology for wastewater* means the use of:


(i) Controls specified in §§ 63.133 through 63.137;


(ii) A steam stripper meeting the specifications of § 63.138(d) or any of the other alternative control measures specified in § 63.138(b), (c), (e), (f), (g), or (h); and


(iii) A control device to reduce by 95 percent (or to an outlet concentration of 20 parts per million by volume for combustion devices or for noncombustion devices controlling air emissions from waste management units other than surface impoundments or containers) the organic hazardous air pollutants emissions in the vapor streams vented from wastewater tanks, oil-water separators, containers, surface impoundments, individual drain systems, and treatment processes (including the design steam stripper) managing wastewater.


*Relief valve* means a type of pressure relief device that is designed to re-close after the pressure relief.


*Repaired* means that equipment:


(i) Is adjusted, or otherwise altered, to eliminate a leak as defined in the applicable sections of subpart H of this part, and


(ii) Unless otherwise specified in applicable provisions of subpart H of this part, is monitored as specified in § 63.180(b) and (c), as appropriate, to verify that emissions from the equipment are below the applicable leak definition.


*Research and development facility* means laboratory and pilot plant operations whose primary purpose is to conduct research and development into new processes and products, where the operations are under the close supervision of technically trained personnel, and is not engaged in the manufacture of products for commercial sale, except in a *de minimis* manner.


*Residual* means any liquid or solid material containing table 9 compounds that is removed from a wastewater stream by a waste management unit or treatment process that does not destroy organics (nondestructive unit). Examples of residuals from nondestructive wastewater management units are: the organic layer and bottom residue removed by a decanter or organic-water separator and the overheads from a steam stripper or air stripper. Examples of materials which are not residuals are: silt; mud; leaves; bottoms from a steam stripper or air stripper; and sludges, ash, or other materials removed from wastewater being treated by destructive devices such as biological treatment units and incinerators.


*Routed to a process or route to a process* means the emissions are conveyed to any enclosed portion of a process unit where the emissions are predominately recycled and/or consumed in the same manner as a material that fulfills the same function in the process; and/or transformed by chemical reaction into materials that are not organic hazardous air pollutants; and/or incorporated into a product; and/or recovered.


*Sampling connection system* means an assembly of equipment within a process unit used during periods of representative operation to take samples of the process fluid. Equipment used to take non-routine grab samples is not considered a sampling connection system.


*Screwed connector* means a threaded pipe fitting where the threads are cut on the pipe wall and the fitting requires only two pieces to make the connection (*i.e.,* the pipe and the fitting).


*Secondary fuel* means a fuel fired through a burner other than the primary fuel burner that provides supplementary heat in addition to the heat provided by the primary fuel.


*Sensor* means a device that measures a physical quantity or the change in a physical quantity, such as temperature, pressure, flow rate, pH, or liquid level.


*Set pressure* means the pressure at which a properly operating pressure relief device begins to open to relieve atypical process system operating pressure.


*Sewer line* means a lateral, trunk line, branch line, or other conduit including, but not limited to, grates, trenches, etc., used to convey wastewater streams or residuals to a downstream waste management unit.


*Shutdown* means for purposes including, but not limited to, periodic maintenance, replacement of equipment, or repair, the cessation of operation of a chemical manufacturing process unit or a reactor, air oxidation reactor, distillation unit, waste management unit, equipment required or used to comply with this subpart, subpart G or H of this part, or the emptying and degassing of a storage vessel. Shutdown does not include the routine rinsing or washing of equipment in batch operation between batches.


*Simultaneous loading* means, for a shared control device, loading of organic HAP materials from more than one transfer arm at the same time such that the beginning and ending times of loading cycles coincide or overlap and there is no interruption in vapor flow to the shared control device.


*Single-seal system* means a floating roof having one continuous seal that completely covers the space between the wall of the storage vessel and the edge of the floating roof. This seal may be a vapor-mounted, liquid-mounted, or metallic shoe seal.


*Source* means the collection of emission points to which this subpart applies as determined by the criteria in § 63.100. For purposes of subparts F, G, and H of this part, the term *affected source* as used in subpart A of this part has the same meaning as the term *source* defined here.


*Specific gravity monitoring device* means a unit of equipment used to monitor specific gravity and having a minimum accuracy of ±0.02 specific gravity units.


*Start-up* means the setting into operation of a chemical manufacturing process unit or a reactor, air oxidation reactor, distillation unit, waste management unit, or equipment required or used to comply with this subpart, subpart G or H of this part, or a storage vessel after emptying and degassing. Start-up includes initial start-up, operation solely for testing equipment, the recharging of equipment in batch operation, and transitional conditions due to changes in product for flexible operation units.


*Start-up, shutdown, and malfunction plan* means the plan required under § 63.6(e)(3). This plan details the procedures for operation and maintenance of the source during periods of start-up, shutdown, and malfunction. For each source as defined in this section, this definition no longer applies on and after July 15, 2027.


*Steam jet ejector* means a steam nozzle which discharges a high-velocity jet across a suction chamber that is connected to the equipment to be evacuated.


*Storage vessel* means a tank or other vessel that is used to store organic liquids that contain one or more of the organic HAP's listed in table 2 to this subpart and that has been assigned, according to the procedures in § 63.100(g), to a chemical manufacturing process unit that is subject to this subpart. Storage vessel does not include:


(i) Vessels permanently attached to motor vehicles such as trucks, railcars, barges, or ships;


(ii) Vessels with capacities smaller than 38 cubic meters;


(iii) Except for storage vessels in ethylene oxide service, vessels storing organic liquids that contain organic hazardous air pollutants only as impurities;


(iv) Bottoms receiver tanks;


(v) Surge control vessels; or


(vi) Wastewater storage tanks. Wastewater storage tanks are covered under the wastewater provisions.


*Surface impoundment* means a waste management unit which is a natural topographic depression, manmade excavation, or diked area formed primarily of earthen materials (although it may be lined with manmade materials), which is designed to hold an accumulation of liquid wastes or waste containing free liquids. A surface impoundment is used for the purpose of treating, storing, or disposing of wastewater or residuals, and is not an injection well. Examples of surface impoundments are equalization, settling, and aeration pits, ponds, and lagoons.


*Surge control vessel* means feed drums, recycle drums, and intermediate vessels. Surge control vessels are used within a chemical manufacturing process unit when in-process storage, mixing, or management of flow rates or volumes is needed to assist in production of a product.


*Table 8 compound* means a compound listed in table 8 to subpart G of this part.


*Table 9 compound* means a compound listed in table 9 to subpart G of this part.


*Temperature monitoring device* means a unit of equipment used to monitor temperature and having a minimum accuracy of (a) ±1 percent of the temperature being monitored expressed in degrees Celsius (( °C) or (b) ±0.5 degrees ( °C), whichever is greater.


*The 33/50 program* means a voluntary pollution prevention initiative established and administered by the EPA to encourage emissions reductions of 17 chemicals emitted in large volumes by industrial facilities. The EPA Document Number 741-K-92-001 provides more information about the 33/50 program.


*Total organic compounds* (*TOC),* as used in the process vents provisions, means those compounds measured according to the procedures of Method 18 of appendix A-6 to 40 CFR part 60, ASTM D6420-18 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) may be used in lieu of Method 18, if the target compounds are all known and are all listed in Section 1.1 of ASTM D6420-18 as measurable; ASTM D6420-18 must not be used for methane and ethane; and ASTM D6420-18 may not be used as a total VOC method.


*Total resource effectiveness index value* or *TRE index value* means a measure of the supplemental total resource requirement per unit reduction of organic HAP associated with a process vent stream, based on vent stream flow rate, emission rate of organic HAP, net heating value, and corrosion properties (whether or not the vent stream contains halogenated compounds), as quantified by the equations given under § 63.115.


*Transfer operation* means the loading, into a tank truck or railcar, of organic liquids that contain one or more of the organic hazardous air pollutants listed in table 2 of this subpart from a transfer rack (as defined in this section). Transfer operations do not include loading at an operating pressure greater than 204.9 kilopascals. For each source as defined in this section, the greater than 204.9 kilopascals exemption in this definition no longer applies on and after July 15, 2027.


*Transfer rack* means the collection of loading arms and loading hoses, at a single loading rack, that are assigned to a chemical manufacturing process unit subject to this subpart according to the procedures specified in § 63.100(h) and are used to fill tank trucks and/or railcars with organic liquids that contain one or more of the organic hazardous air pollutants listed in table 2 to this subpart. Transfer rack includes the associated pumps, meters, shutoff valves, relief valves, and other piping and valves. Transfer rack does not include:


(i) Racks, arms, or hoses that only transfer liquids containing organic hazardous air pollutants as impurities; or


(ii) Racks, arms, or hoses that vapor balance during all loading operations.


*Treatment process* means a specific technique that removes or destroys the organics in a wastewater or residual stream such as a steam stripping unit, thin-film evaporation unit, waste incinerator, biological treatment unit, or any other process applied to wastewater streams or residuals to comply with § 63.138. Most treatment processes are conducted in tanks. Treatment processes are a subset of waste management units.


*Unit operation* means one or more pieces of process equipment used to make a single change to the physical or chemical characteristics of one or more process streams. Unit operations include, but are not limited to, reactors, distillation units, extraction columns, absorbers, decanters, dryers, condensers, and filtration equipment.


*Vapor balancing system* means a piping system that is designed to collect organic hazardous air pollutants vapors displaced from tank trucks or railcars during loading; and to route the collected organic hazardous air pollutants vapors to the storage vessel from which the liquid being loaded originated, or to another storage vessel connected by a common header or to compress and route to a process or a fuel gas system the collected organic hazardous air pollutants vapors.


*Vapor collection system,* as used in the transfer provisions, means the equipment used to collect and transport organic HAP vapors displaced during the loading of tank trucks or railcars. This does not include the vapor collection system that is part of any tank truck or railcar vapor collection manifold system.


*Vapor-mounted seal* means a continuous seal that completely covers the annular space between the wall of the storage vessel or waste management unit and the edge of the floating roof and is mounted such that there is a vapor space between the stored liquid and the bottom of the seal.


*Vent stream,* as used in the process vent provisions, means the gas stream flowing through the process vent.


*Waste management unit* means the equipment, structure(s), and/or device(s) used to convey, store, treat, or dispose of wastewater streams or residuals. Examples of waste management units include: Wastewater tanks, surface impoundments, individual drain systems, and biological wastewater treatment units. Examples of equipment that may be waste management units include containers, air flotation units, oil-water separators or organic-water separators, or organic removal devices such as decanters, strippers, or thin-film evaporation units. If such equipment is used for recovery then it is part of a chemical manufacturing process unit and is not a waste management unit.


*Wastewater* means water that:


(i) Contains either:


(A) An annual average concentration of table 9 compounds of at least 5 parts per million by weight and has an annual average flow rate of 0.02 liter per minute or greater, or


(B) An annual average concentration of table 9 compounds of at least 10,000 parts per million by weight at any flow rate, and that


(ii) Is discarded from a chemical manufacturing process unit that meets all of the criteria specified in § 63.100 (b)(1) through (3). Wastewater is process wastewater or maintenance wastewater.


*Wastewater stream* means a stream that contains only wastewater.


*Wastewater tank* means a stationary waste management unit that is designed to contain an accumulation of wastewater or residuals and is constructed primarily of non-earthen materials (*e.g.,* wood, concrete, steel, plastic) which provide structural support. Wastewater tanks used for flow equalization are included in this definition.


*Water seal controls* means a seal pot, p-leg trap, or other type of trap filled with water (*e.g.,* flooded sewers that maintain water levels adequate to prevent air flow through the system) that creates a water barrier between the sewer line and the atmosphere. The water level of the seal must be maintained in the vertical leg of a drain in order to be considered a water seal.







---

[N] [59 FR 19454, Apr. 22, 1994, as amended at 60 FR 18024, Apr. 10, 1995; 60 FR 63626, Dec. 12, 1995; 62 FR 2731, Jan. 17, 1997; 65 FR 26497, May 8, 2000; 66 FR 6928, Jan. 22, 2001; 89 FR 43155, May 16, 2024]






