# ยง 172.3   Definitions.

As used in this part:


*Audit* means a formal examination, in accordance with professional standards, of a consultant's accounting systems, incurred cost records, and other cost presentations to test the reasonableness, allowability, and allocability of costs in accordance with the Federal cost principles (as specified in 48 CFR part 31).


*Cognizant agency* means any governmental agency that has performed an audit in accordance with generally accepted government auditing standards to test compliance with the requirements of the Federal cost principles (as specified in 48 CFR part 31) and issued an audit report of the consultant's indirect cost rate, or any described agency that has conducted a review of an audit report and related workpapers prepared by a certified public accountant and issued a letter of concurrence with the audited indirect cost rate(s). A cognizant agency may be any of the following:


(1) A Federal agency;


(2) A State transportation agency of the State where the consultant's accounting and financial records are located; or


(3) A State transportation agency to which cognizance for the particular indirect cost rate(s) of a consulting firm has been delegated or transferred in writing by the State transportation agency identified in paragraph (2) of this definition.


*Competitive negotiation* means qualifications-based selection procurement procedures complying with 40 U.S.C. 1101-1104, commonly referred to as the Brooks Act.


*Consultant* means the individual or firm providing engineering and design related services as a party to a contract with a recipient or subrecipient of Federal assistance (as defined in 2 CFR 200.86 or 2 CFR 200.93, respectively).


*Contract* means a written procurement contract or agreement between a contracting agency and consultant reimbursed under a FAHP grant or subgrant and includes any procurement subcontract under a contract.


*Contracting agencies* means a State transportation agency or a procuring agency of the State acting in conjunction with and at the direction of the State transportation agency, other recipients, and all subrecipients that are responsible for the procurement, management, and administration of engineering and design related services.


*Contract modification* means an agreement modifying the terms or conditions of an original or existing contract.


*Engineering and design related services* means:


(1) Program management, construction management, feasibility studies, preliminary engineering, design engineering, surveying, mapping, or architectural related services with respect to a highway construction project subject to 23 U.S.C. 112(a) as defined in 23 U.S.C. 112(b)(2)(A); and


(2) Professional services of an architectural or engineering nature, as defined by State law, which are required to or may logically or justifiably be performed or approved by a person licensed, registered, or certified to provide the services with respect to a highway construction project subject to 23 U.S.C. 112(a) and as defined in 40 U.S.C. 1102(2).


*Federal cost principles* means the cost principles contained in 48 CFR part 31 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation for determination of allowable costs of commercial, for-profit entities.


*Fixed fee* means a sum expressed in U.S. dollars established to cover the consultant's profit and other business expenses not allowable or otherwise included as a direct or indirect cost.


*Management support role* means performing engineering management services or other services acting on the contracting agency's behalf, which are subject to review and oversight by agency officials, such as a program or project administration role typically performed by the contracting agency and necessary to fulfill the duties imposed by title 23 of the United States Code, other Federal and State laws, and applicable regulations.


*Noncompetitive* means the method of procurement of engineering and design related services when it is not feasible to award the contract using competitive negotiation or small purchase procurement methods.


*One-year applicable accounting period* means the annual accounting period for which financial statements are regularly prepared by the consultant.


*Scope of work* means all services, work activities, and actions required of the consultant by the obligations of the contract.


*Small purchases* means the method of procurement of engineering and design related services where an adequate number of qualified sources are reviewed and the total contract costs do not exceed an established simplified acquisition threshold.


*State transportation agency (STA)* means that department or agency maintained in conformity with 23 U.S.C. 302 and charged under State law with the responsibility for highway construction (as defined in 23 U.S.C. 101); and that is authorized by the laws of the State to make final decisions in all matters relating to, and to enter into, all contracts and agreements for projects and activities to fulfill the duties imposed by title 23 United States Code, title 23 Code of Federal Regulations, and other applicable Federal laws and regulations.


*Subconsultant* means the individual or firm contracted by a consultant to provide engineering and design related or other types of services that are part of the services which the consultant is under contract to provide to a recipient (as defined in 23 CFR 200.86) or subrecipient (as defined in 2 CFR 200.93) of Federal assistance.




