# § 165.119   Safety Zone; Captain of the Port Boston Fireworks display zones, Boston Harbor, Boston, MA.

(a) *Boston Inner Harbor.* The following areas are designated as safety zones:


(1) *Charlestown Safety Zone.* All U.S. navigable waters of Boston inner Harbor within a 700-foot radius of the fireworks barge in approximate position 42°22′12.7″ N 071°02′53″ W (NAD 1983), located off of Pier 5 Charlestown Navy Yard.


(2) *Long Wharf Safety Zone.* All U.S. navigable waters of Boston inner Harbor within a 700-foot radius of the fireworks barge in approximate position 42°21′41.2″ N 071°02′36.5″ W (NAD 1983), located off of Long Wharf, Boston MA.


(3) *Fan Pier Safety Zone.* All U.S. navigable waters of Boston inner Harbor within a 700-foot radius of the fireworks barge in approximate position 42°21′23.2″ N 071°02′26″ W (NAD 1983), located off of the Fan Pier, South Boston, MA.


(4) *Pier 6 Safety Zone.* All U.S. navigable waters of Boston inner Harbor within a 700-foot radius of the fireworks barge in approximate position 42°21′11.9″ N 071°02′1.3″ W (NAD 1983), located off of Pier 6, South Boston, MA.


(5) *North Jetty Safety Zone.* All U.S. navigable waters of Boston inner Harbor within a 700-foot radius of the fireworks barge in approximate position 42°21′01″ N 071°01′31.7″ W (NAD 1983), located off of the North Jetty, South Boston, MA.


(6) *Castle Island Safety Zone.* All U.S. navigable waters of Boston inner Harbor within a 700-foot radius of the fireworks barge in approximate position 42°20′27.4″ N 071°00′28.1″ W (NAD 1983), located off of the Castle Island, South Boston, MA.


(b) *Notification.* Coast Guard Sector Boston will use all appropriate means to notify the public in advance of an event of the enforcement of these safety zones to include publishing a Notice of Enforcement in the _Federal Register_ and through the local Notice to Mariners and Broadcast Notice to Mariners. Fireworks barges used in these locations will also have a sign on their port and starboard side labeled “FIREWORKS—STAY AWAY”. This sign will consist of a ten inch high by one and half inch wide red lettering on a white background.


(c) *Enforcement period.* The Coast Guard anticipates that these safety zones will be enforced between 6:00 p.m. (e.s.t.) and 1:00 a.m. (e.s.t.). The exact dates and times will be published as described in paragraph (b) of this section.


(d) *Definitions.* For purposes of this section “Designated representative” is any Coast Guard commissioned, warrant, or petty officer who has been designated by the Captain of the Port Boston (COTP) to act on the COTP's behalf. The designated representative may be on an Official Patrol Vessel; Official Patrol Vessel may consist of any Coast Guard, Coast Guard Auxiliary, state, or local law enforcement vessels assigned or approved by the COTP or the designated representative may be on shore and will communicate with vessels via VHF-FM radio or loudhailer. In addition, members of the Coast Guard Auxiliary may be present to inform vessel operators of this regulation.


(e) No vessels, except for fireworks barges and accompanying vessels, will be allowed to enter into, transit through, or anchor within one of the aforementioned safety zones during an enforcement period without the permission of the COTP or the designated representative.


(f) All persons and vessels permitted to enter one of these safety zones during an enforcement period shall comply with the instructions of the COTP or the designated on-scene representative. Upon being hailed by a U.S. Coast Guard vessel by siren, radio, flashing light, or other means, the operator of a vessel shall proceed as directed.


(g) Vessel operators desiring to enter or operate within a safety zone during a period of enforcement shall contact the COTP or the designated on-scene representative via VHF channel 16 or 617-223-5757 (Sector Boston Command Center) to obtain permission.



---

[N] [USCG-2013-0503, 79 FR 26848, May 12, 2014]










