# § 32.44   Missouri.

The following refuge units are open for hunting and/or fishing as governed by applicable Federal and State regulations, and are listed in alphabetical order with additional refuge-specific regulations.


(a) *Big Muddy National Fish and Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of migratory game birds on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: You must remove all your blinds, boats, and decoys from the refuge each day (see § 27.93 of this chapter), except for blinds made entirely of marsh vegetation.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow upland game hunting on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: On the 131-acre mainland unit of Boone's Crossing, we allow upland game hunting with archery methods only. On Johnson Island, we allow hunting of game animals during Statewide seasons using archery methods or shotguns using shot no larger than BB.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of deer and turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow only portable tree stands from September 1 through January 31. Hunters must place their State Conservation number on their stands.


(ii) On the Boone's Crossing Unit, including Johnson Island, we allow deer and turkey hunters with archery methods only.


(iii) On the Cora Island Unit, we allow deer hunting with archery methods only. We restrict hunting for other game on this unit to shotgun only with shot no larger than BB.


(iv) For wild turkey hunting, you may use or possess only approved nontoxic shot shells (see § 32.2(k)) while in the field.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: You must operate all motorized boats at no-wake speed.


(b) *Clarence Cannon National Wildlife Refuge.* (1)-(2) [Reserved]


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of white-tailed deer on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) You must register at the hunter sign-in/out station and record the sex and age of deer harvested on the Harvest Report (FWS Form 3-2542).


(ii) We prohibit shooting at deer that are on any portion of the main perimeter levee.


(iii) If you are assigned a specific blind location, you may hunt only from that location.


(iv) We allow use of portable stands, but hunters must remove them at the end of each day (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(v) You must remove all boats, blinds, blind materials, stands, platforms, scaffolds, and other hunting equipment from the refuge at the end of each day's hunt (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow fishing subject to the following conditions:


(i) We prohibit the taking of turtle or frog (see § 27.21 of this chapter).


(ii) We allow only boat fishing, except that we allow bank fishing during managed refuge special events.


(iii) Anglers must remove all boats and fishing equipment at the end of each day (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(c) *Great River National Wildlife Refuge.* Refer to § 32.32(e) for regulations.


(d) *Loess Bluffs National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of light goose on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow hunting of light geese only during the spring conservation order season.


(ii) We require hunters to have a Special Use Permit (FWS Form 3-1383-C), and all hunters must hunt with a guide.


(iii) We allow the guide and hunters into the hunt boundary up to 2 hours prior to legal shooting time.


(iv) Hunting ends at 1 p.m.


(v) We allow dogs while hunting, provided the dog is under the immediate control of the hunter at all times.


(vi) We allow portable blinds and decoys at the discretion of the guide.


(vii) We prohibit pit blinds.


(viii) We prohibit retrieving crippled geese outside of the hunt boundary, including adjacent private land. This includes retrieval by dogs.


(2) [Reserved]


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of deer on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We require a valid State-managed hunt unit permit to hunt deer on the refuge.


(ii) We allow only muzzleloader hunting.


(iii) We require hunters to check in and out of the refuge.


(iv) You must remove your stand(s) from the refuge at the end of the managed deer hunt (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following condition: You may take fish, amphibians, reptiles, and crustaceans only with a hand-held pole and line or rod and reel.


(e) *Middle Mississippi River National Wildlife Refuge.* Refer to § 32.32(i) for regulations.


(f) *Mingo National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow waterfowl hunting in Pool 7 and Pool 8 subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow the use of dogs for waterfowl hunting, provided the dogs are under the immediate control of the hunter at all times.


(ii) We allow waterfowl hunting from 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise until 1 p.m.


(iii) You must remove boats, decoys, blinds, and blind materials brought onto the refuge at the end of each day's hunt (see §§ 27.93 and 27.94 of this chapter).


(iv) We require hunters to go through the Missouri Department of Conservation daily draw process at Duck Creek Conservation Area to hunt in Pool 7 and Pool 8.


(v) We require hunters to read our refuge hunting brochure that contains a hunting permit (signed brochure). We require hunters to sign and carry the permit/brochure while hunting.


(vi) We allow the take of feral hog at any time, and bobcat when in season, while legally hunting others species on the refuge.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of squirrel, raccoon, and bobcat in designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (f)(1)(v) and (vi) of this section apply.


(ii) We allow hunter access from 1
1/2 hours before legal shooting time until 1
1/2 hours after legal shooting time.


(iii) We require that all hunters complete a Harvest Report (FWS Form 3-2542) located at the exit kiosks prior to exiting the refuge.


(iv) We allow squirrel hunting from the State opening day until the day before the State opening of archery deer season.


(v) Archery hunters may take squirrel, raccoon, and bobcat while in season and feral hog anytime while archery deer hunting.


(vi) We allow raccoon hunting by special use permit during the Statewide raccoon season.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow big game hunting in designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (f)(1)(iii), (v), and (vi) and (f)(2)(ii) of this section apply.


(ii) We require that all hunters complete the Harvest Report (FWS Form 3-2542) located at the exit kiosks prior to exiting the refuge.


(iii) We allow archery hunting for deer and turkey during the fall season.


(iv) We allow spring turkey hunting. You may only use or possess approved nontoxic shot shells (see § 32.2(k)) while in the field, including shot shells used for hunting wild turkey.


(v) We allow archery hunting in the Expanded General Hunt Area through October 31.


(vi) We allow portable tree stands. You may place a portable tree stand no earlier than 2 weeks before the State archery deer season, and you must remove it no later than 2 weeks after the State archery deer season (see § 27.93 of this chapter), except that in the Expanded General Hunt Area, you must remove all personal property at the end of each day (see § 27.93 of this chapter). A tree stand left on the refuge must be labeled with hunter's conservation identification number.


(vii) We allow only one tree stand per deer hunter.


(viii) Hunters may use boats to access the hunt area.


(ix) We require hunters to apply for managed deer hunts through the Missouri Department of Conservation internet draw.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) Except as provided under paragraph (f)(4)(ii) of this section, we allow fishing from March 1 through September 30, from 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise until 
1/2 hour after legal sunset, on all refuge waters.


(ii) We allow fishing year-round from 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise to 
1/2 hour after legal sunset on Red Mill Pond, Mingo River (south of Ditch 6 Road), Stanley Creed, May Pond, Fox Pond, and Ditches 1, 2, 3, 6, 10, and 11.


(iii) We allow the use of electric trolling motors outside the Mingo Wilderness.


(iv) We require the removal of watercraft from the refuge at the end of each day's fishing activity (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(v) We allow anglers to take nongame fish by nets and seines for personal use only from March 1 through September 30.


(vi) Anglers must attend trammel and gill nets at all times and plainly label them with the angler's conservation identification (ID) number.


(vii) We only allow the use of trotlines, throwlines, limb lines, bank lines, and jug lines from 
1/2 hour before legal sunrise until 
1/2 hour after legal sunset. Anglers must mark each line with their conservation ID number.


(viii) We allow the take of common snapping turtle and soft-shelled turtle using only pole and line. We require all anglers to immediately release all alligator snapping turtles.


(g) *Swan Lake National Wildlife Refuge*—(1) *Migratory game bird hunting.* We allow hunting of waterfowl, dove, rail, snipe, and woodcock on the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We require the Missouri Department of Conservation “Green Card” while hunting waterfowl.


(ii) We require Missouri Department of Conservation “White Cards” while dove hunting.


(iii) You must follow designated check-in and check-out procedures.


(iv) We only allow waterfowl hunting during designated days of the waterfowl seasons, late goose season, and Spring Conservation Order season.


(v) We restrict hunting hours to designated times on designated units. You must remove all equipment (see § 27.93 of this chapter) and exit units by 1 p.m.


(vi) During the Spring Conservation Order season, you may leave decoys and blinds overnight in your assigned unit.


(vii) You may hunt only in your assigned designated area. We assign designated areas to hunters at the check station.


(viii) We allow the use of dogs while hunting, provided the dog is under the immediate control of the hunter at all times.


(ix) We restrict hunting units to parties no larger than four, unless otherwise designated.


(x) We allow hand-pulled carts.


(xi) You must park vehicles in designated parking areas.


(xii) We prohibit hunting or shooting on, across, or within 100 feet (30.5 meters) of a service road, parking lot, or designated trail.


(2) *Upland game hunting.* We allow hunting of upland game on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The condition set forth at paragraph (g)(1)(xii) of this section applies.


(ii) We allow shotguns, handguns, and rimfire .22 caliber rifles.


(iii) You may not access the refuge from neighboring private or public lands.


(iv) We restrict hunting use hours on designated hunting units.


(3) *Big game hunting.* We allow hunting of deer and wild turkey on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) The conditions set forth at paragraphs (g)(1)(iii) and (g)(2)(iii) of this section apply.


(ii) For wild turkey hunting, you may use or possess only approved nontoxic shot shells (see § 32.2(k)) while in the field.


(iii) On the refuge, we allow hunting of white-tailed deer subject to the following conditions:


(A) We require a Missouri Department of Conservation Permit, along with Missouri Department of Conservation hunter identification tags and parking permits (name/address/phone number), to hunt during the managed deer hunt.


(B) You must participate in a pre-hunt orientation for managed deer hunts.


(C) You must hunt in designated areas during designated times.


(D) We allow entry onto the refuge 1 hour prior to shooting hours during managed deer hunts. You must be off the refuge 1 hour after shooting hours, unless the refuge manager or designee has given you permission to stay on the refuge until a later time.


(E) We prohibit shooting from, across, or within 100 feet (30.5 meters (m)) of a service road, public road, parking lot, or designated trail unless authorized by the refuge manager.


(F) We allow use of portable tree stands and blinds during managed deer hunts, and you must remove them at designated times (see § 27.93 of this chapter). You must attach your conservation identification number to all stands and blinds. During managed firearms hunts, you must mark enclosed hunting blinds and stands with hunter orange visible from all sides.


(G) During special hunts, one nonhunting assistant may accompany youth or hunters with disabilities.


(4) *Sport fishing.* We allow sport fishing on designated areas of the refuge subject to the following conditions:


(i) We allow fishing on the refuge only during refuge open hours.


(ii) The Taylor Point area of Elk Creek is open to fishing year-round during daylight hours. Anglers may access this area by a refuge road (FHWA Route 100) off of State Highway E.


(iii) We allow only nonmotorized boats on refuge waters, except that anglers may use motor boats on the Silver Lake impoundment. No wake applies to all waters on the refuge.


(iv) Anglers must remove all boats from the refuge at the end of each day (see § 27.93 of this chapter).


(h) *Two Rivers National Wildlife Refuge.* Refer to § 32.32(k) for regulations.



---

[N] [84 FR 47675, Sept. 10, 2019, as amended at 86 FR 48871, Aug. 31, 2021]




