# ยง 52.470   Identification of plan.

(a) *Purpose and scope.* This section sets forth the applicable State implementation plan for the District of Columbia under section 110 of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401) and 40 CFR part 51 to meet national ambient air quality standards.


(b) *Incorporation by reference.* (1) Material listed in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section with an EPA approval date prior to May 14, 2018, was approved for incorporation by reference by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Material is incorporated as it exists on the date of approval, and notice of any change in the material will be published in the _Federal Register._ Entries in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section with the EPA approval dates after May 14, 2018 for the District of Columbia, will be incorporated by reference in the next update to the SIP compilation.


(2) EPA Region III certifies that the materials provided by EPA at the addresses in paragraph (b)(3) of this section are an exact duplicate of the officially promulgated State rules/regulations which have been approved as part of the State implementation plan as of the dates referenced in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. No additional revisions were made to paragraph (d) of this section between July 1, 2016 and May 14, 2018.


(3) Copies of the materials incorporated by reference into the State implementation plan may be inspected at the Environmental Protection Agency, Region III, 1650 Arch Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103. To obtain the material, please call the Regional Office at (215) 814-3376. You may also inspect the material with an EPA approval date prior to July 1, 2016 for the District of Columbia at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.*

(c) *EPA-approved regulations.*

(d) *EPA-approved State source-specific requirements.*

(e) *EPA-approved non-regulatory and quasi-regulatory material.*


---

[N] [63 FR 67417, Dec. 7, 1998] 


