# § 1501.6   Findings of no significant impact.

(a) After completing an environmental assessment, an agency shall prepare:


(1) A finding of no significant impact if the agency determines, based on the environmental assessment, that NEPA does not require preparation of an environmental impact statement because the proposed action will not have significant effects;


(2) A mitigated finding of no significant impact if the agency determines, based on the environmental assessment, that NEPA does not require preparation of an environmental impact statement because the proposed action will not have significant effects due to mitigation; or


(3) An environmental impact statement if the agency determines, based on the environmental assessment, that the action will have significant effects.


(b)(1) The agency shall make the finding of no significant impact available to the affected public as specified in § 1501.9(c)(5).


(2) In the following circumstances, the agency shall make the finding of no significant impact available for public review for 30 days before the agency determines whether to prepare an environmental impact statement and before the action may begin:


(i) The proposed action is or is closely similar to one that normally requires the preparation of an environmental impact statement under the procedures adopted by the agency pursuant to § 1507.3 of this subchapter; or


(ii) The nature of the proposed action is one without precedent.


(c) The finding of no significant impact shall include the environmental assessment or incorporate it by reference and shall note any other environmental documents related to it (§ 1502.4(d)(3) of this subchapter). If the environmental assessment is included, the finding need not repeat any of the discussion in the assessment but may incorporate it by reference.


(d) The finding of no significant impact shall state the authority for any mitigation that the agency has adopted and any applicable monitoring or enforcement provisions. If the agency finds no significant effects based on mitigation, the mitigated finding of no significant impact shall state the enforceable mitigation requirements or commitments that will be undertaken and the authority to enforce them, such as terms and conditions or other measures in a relevant permit, incidental take statement, or other agreement, and the agency shall prepare a monitoring and compliance plan for that mitigation consistent with § 1505.3(c) of this subchapter. In addition, the agency shall prepare a monitoring and compliance plan for other mitigation as required by § 1505.3(c) of this subchapter.






