# ยง 2653.1   Conveyance limitations.

(a) Under section 14(h) of the Act, a total of 2 million acres may be selected for cemetery sites and historical places, Native groups, corporations formed by the Native residents of Sitka, Kenai, Juneau, and Kodiak, for primary places of residence, and for Native allotments approved as provided in section 18 of the Act. Selections must be made before July 1, 1976. Of this total amount: 


(1) 500,000 acres will be set aside to be used by the Secretary to satisfy applications filed pursuant to section 14(h) (1), (2), and (5) of the Act. The 500,000 acres will be allocated by: (i) Dividing 200,000 acres among the regions based on the number of Natives enrolled in each region; and, (ii) dividing 300,000 acres equally among the regions; 


(2) 92,160 acres will be set aside for possible allocation by the Secretary to corporations formed by the Natives residing in Sitka, Kenai, Juneau, and Kodiak; 


(3) 400,000 acres will be set aside to be used by the Secretary to satisfy Native allotment applications approved prior to December 18, 1975, under the Act of May 17, 1906 (34 Stat. 197), the Act of February 8, 1887 (24 Stat. 389), as amended and supplemented, and the Act of June 25, 1910 (36 Stat. 863). Any Native allotment applications pending before the Bureau of Indian Affairs or the Bureau of Land Management on December 18, 1971, will be considered as *pending before the Department.* Those allotment applications which have been determined to meet the requirements of the acts cited herein and for which survey has been requested before December 18, 1975, shall be considered *approved* under section 14(h)(6) of the Act and shall be charged against the acreage. 


(b) After subtracting the number of acres used in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section from 2 million acres, the remainder will, after July 1, 1976, be reallocated by the Secretary among the regional corporations in accordance with the number of Natives enrolled in each region. 


(c) No Native allotment applications pending before the Secretary on December 18, 1971, will be rejected solely for the reason that the acreage set aside by paragraph (a)(3) of this section has been exhausted. 



---

[N] [38 FR 14218, May 30, 1973, as amended at 41 FR 14737, Apr. 7, 1976] 




