# ยง 176.182   Conditions for handling on board ship.

(a) *Weather conditions.* Class 1 (explosive) materials may not be handled in weather conditions which may seriously increase the hazards presented by the Class 1 (explosive) materials. During electrical storms, cargo operations must be halted and all hatches containing Class 1 (explosive) materials must be closed.


(b) *Darkness.* Class 1 (explosive) materials may not be handled on board a vessel during the hours of darkness unless prior consent has been obtained from the COTP.


(c) *Lighting.* The area where Class 1 (explosive) materials are handled, or where preparations are being made to handle Class 1 (explosive) materials, must be illuminated with lighting that is sufficient to safely perform the handling operation.


(d) *Protective equipment.* (1) A sufficient quantity of appropriate protective equipment must be provided for the personnel involved in handling Class 1 (explosive) materials.


(2) The protective equipment must provide adequate protection against the hazards specific to the Class 1 (explosive) materials handled.


(e) *Intoxicated persons.* No person under the influence of alcohol or drugs to such an extent that the person's judgment or behavior is impaired may participate in any operation involving the handling of Class 1 (explosive) materials. The master of the vessel must keep any such person clear of any areas where Class 1 (explosive) materials are being handled.


(f) *Smoking.* (1) Smoking is prohibited on the vessel while Class 1 (explosive) materials are being handled or stowed except in places designated by the master of the vessel.


(2) Conspicuous notices prohibiting smoking must be posted and clearly visible at all locations where Class 1 (explosive) materials are handled or stored.


(g) All hatches and cargo ports opening into a compartment in which Class 1 (explosive) materials are stowed must be kept closed except during loading and unloading of the compartment. After loading, hatches must be securely closed.




