# § 3203.3   Definitions.

*Cannibalization* means to remove serviceable parts from one item of equipment in order to install them on another item of equipment in order to repair or enhance its operability.


*City, town, or local government entity in a rural area* as defined in 7 U.S.C. 1991(a)(13)(A) means any area other than:


(1) A city or town that has a population of greater than 50,000 inhabitants; and


(2) Any urbanized area contiguous and adjacent to such a city or town described in paragraph (1) of this definition.


*Computers or other technical equipment* means central processing units, laptops, desktops, computer mouses, keyboards, monitors, related peripheral tools (e.g., printers, modems, routers, servers, multimedia projectors, multifunctional devices, external hard drives) and fax machines. This term may also include computer software where the transfer of a license is permitted.


*Designated organization* means an organization that has been selected by an official of a city, town, or local government entity in a rural area to provide refurbishing services on donated computer and technical equipment.


*Excess* means any property under the control of a USDA agency that is no longer required for that agency's or another USDA agency's needs, as determined by the agency head or designee.


*Property Management Officer (PMO)* is an eligible recipient's designated point of contact, responsible for adherence to procedures described in this part.


*Recipient* means a city, town, or local government entity located in a rural area as defined in 7 U.S.C. 1991(a)(13)(A) that may receive excess computers or other technical equipment under this part.


*Refurbish* means to make ‘like new’ by the process of major maintenance or minor repair of an item, either aesthetically or mechanically.




