# § 1.6050K-1   Returns relating to sales or exchanges of certain partnership interests.

(a) *Partnership return required*—(1) *In general.* Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (a), a partnership shall make a separate return on Form 8308 with respect to each section 751(a) exchange (as defined in paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section) of an interest in such partnership which occurs after December 31, 1984. A partnership that is in doubt as to whether partnership property constitutes section 751 property to any extent or as to whether a transfer of a partnership interest constitutes a section 751(a) exchange may file Form 8308 in order to avoid the risk of incurring a penalty under section 6721. The penalty under section 6721 will generally apply, however, to partnerships that do not file Form 8308 where in fact a section 751(a) exchange occurred, except as provided in paragraphs (a)(2) and (e) of this section.


(2) *Return required under section 6045.* No return shall be required under section 6050K(a) and paragraph (a)(1) of this section with respect to the sale or exchange of a partnership interest if a return is required to be filed under section 6045 with respect to such sale or exchange.


(3) *Single or composite documents.* The Commissioner may authorize the use, at the option of the partnership, of a single document which includes all of the partnership's returns for a calendar year in the case of partnerships required under paragraph (a)(1) of this section to make 25 or more returns on Form 8308 for any calendar year. In addition, the Commissioner may authorize the use for this purpose, also at the option of such a partnership, of a composite document. These authorizations shall be subject to such conditions, limitations, and special rules governing the preparation, execution, filing, and correction thereof as the Commissioner may deem appropriate. Such composite document shall consist of a form prescribed by the Commissioner and an attachment or attachments of magnetic tape or other approved media. To the extent that the use of a single or composite document has been authorized by the Commissioner, references in this section to Form 8303 shall be deemed to refer also to returns included in a single or composite document under this paragraph (a)(3). Any single or composite document so authorized shall include the information required to be provided on Form 8308 under paragraph (b) of this section with respect to each section 751(a) exchange.


(4) *Definitions.* For purposes of section 6050K of the Code and this section—


(i) *Section 751(a) exchange.* The term *section 751(a) exchange* means any sale or exchange of a partnership interest (or portion thereof) in which any portion of any money or other property received by a transferor partner in exchange for all or a part of his or her interest in the partnership is attributable to section 751 property. The term does not include a distribution which is treated as a sale or exchange between the distributee and the partnership under section 751(b) of the Code.


(ii) *Section 751 property.* The term *section 751 property* means unrealized receivables, as defined in section 751(c) of the Code, and inventory items which have appreciated substantially in value (“substantially appreciated inventory items”), as defined in section 751(d) of the Code.


(iii) *Transferor and transferee.* The term *transferor* means the beneficial owner of a partnership interest immediately before the transfer of that interest. The term “transferee” means the beneficial owner of a partnership interest immediately after the transfer of that interest. However, if a partnership does not know the identity of the beneficial owner of an interest in the partnership, the record holder of such interest shall be treated as the transferor or transferee (as the case may be) for purposes of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.


(b) *Contents of return.* The return on Form 8308 shall include the following information:


(1) The names, addresses, and taxpayer identification numbers of the transferee and transferor in the exchange and of the partnership filing the return;


(2) The date of the exchange; and


(3) Such other information as may be required by Form 8308 or its instructions.


(c)(1) *In general.*—*Statement to be furnished to transferor and transferee.* Every partnership required to file a return under paragraph (a) of this section must furnish to each person whose name is required to be set forth in such return a written statement on or before January 31 of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the section 751(a) exchange occurred to which the return under paragraph (a) relates (or, if later, 30 days after the partnership is notified of the exchange as defined in paragraph (e) of this section). The partnership shall use a copy of the completed Form 8308 as a statement unless the Form 8308 contains information with respect to more than one section 751(a) exchange (see paragraph (a)(3) of this section). If the partnership does not use a copy of Form 8308 as a statement, the statement shall include the information required to be shown on Form 8308 with respect to the section 751(a) exchange to which the person to whom the statement is furnished is a party. In addition, it shall state that—


(i) The information shown on the statement has been supplied to the Internal Revenue Service,


(ii) A transferor of a partnership interest in a sale or exchange described in section 751(a) of the Internal Revenue Code is required to treat a portion of any gain or loss resulting from the sale or exchange as ordinary income or loss, and


(iii) The transferor in a section 751(a) sale or exchange is required under paragraph (a)(3) of § 1.751-1 to attach a statement relating to the sale or exchange to his or her income tax return for the taxable year in which the sale or exchange occurred.










(2) *Information to be provided to transferors.* The statement a partnership must provide to a transferor partner pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section must also include the information necessary for the transferor to make the transferor's required statement under § 1.751-1(a)(3).


(3) *Transfers of partnership interests by foreign persons.* For additional information required to be provided by the partnership if section 864(c)(8) applies to the transfer of a partnership interest by a foreign person, see § 1.864(c)(8)-2(b).




(d) *Requirement that transferor notify partnership*—(1) *In general.* The transferor of any partnership interest in a section 751(a) exchange shall notify the partnership of such exchange in writing within 30 days of the exchange (or, if earlier, January 15 of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the exchange occurred). The written notification from the transferor shall include the following information:


(i) The names and addresses of the transferor and transferee in the section 751(a) exchange;


(ii) The taxpayer identification numbers of the transferor and, if known, of the transferee; and


(iii) The date of the exchange.


(2) *Return required under section 6045.* No transferor shall be required to notify a partnership of the sale or exchange of a partnership interest under section 6050K(c)(1) or paragraph (d)(1) of this section if a return is required to be filed under section 6045 with respect to such sale or exchange.


(3) *Transfers of partnership interests by foreign persons.* For notifications required by foreign transferors of partnership interests, see § 1.864(c)(8)-2(a).




(e) *Partnership not required to make a return or furnish statements under this section until it has notice of the exchange.* A partnership shall not be required to make a return or furnish statements under section 6050K and this section with respect to any section 751(a) exchange until it has been notified of the exchange. For purposes of section 6050K(c)(2) and this section, a partnership is notified of a section 751(a) exchange when either:


(1) The partnership receives the written notification from the transferor required under paragraph (d) of this section; or


(2) The partnership has knowledge that there has been a transfer of a partnership interest or any portion thereof, and, at the time of the transfer, the partnership had any section 751 property. However, no return or statements are required under section 6050K if the transfer was not a section 751(a) exchange (e.g., a transfer which in its entirety constitutes a gift for federal income tax purposes). For purposes of this paragraph (e)(2), the partnership may rely on a written statement from the transferor that the transfer was not a section 751(a) exchange in the absence of knowledge to the contrary. For rules applicable where the partnership is in doubt as to whether partnership property constitutes section 751 property to any extent or as to whether a transfer of a partnership interest constitutes a section 751(a) exchange, see paragraph (a)(1) of this section.


(f) *Partnership return is to be attached to Form 1065*—(1) *In general.* Any partnership return on Form 8308 required under this section shall be filed as an attachment to the partnership's Form 1065 for its taxable year in which the calendar year in which the section 751(a) exchange occurred ends and shall be filed at the time (determined with regard to any extension of time for filing) and place prescribed for filing of the partnership's Form 1065 for that taxable year (see paragraph (e) of § 1.6031-1 for the time and place for filing Form 1065).


(2) *Notification after Form 1065 is filed.* If a partnership is notified of an exchange (as defined in paragraph (e) of this section) after the partnership has filed Form 1065 for the taxable year with respect to which the exchange should have been reported, Form 8308 shall be filed with the service center or other Internal Revenue office with which the partnership's Form 1065 was filed, on or before the thirtieth day after the partnership is notified of the exchange.


(g) *Penalties.* For penalties for failure of:


(1) Transferors to furnish the notification required by paragraph (d) of this section see section 6722 (b);


(2) Partnerships to furnish any statement required under paragraph (c) of this section see section 6722 (a); and


(3) Partnerships to file the return on Form 8308 as required by paragraph (a) of this section see section 6721.


(h) *Applicability date.* Paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) of this section apply to returns filed on or after November 30, 2020. Paragraph (d)(3) of this section applies to transfers that occur on or after November 30, 2020.









---

[N] [T.D. 8119, 52 FR 41, Jan. 2, 1987, as amended by T.D. 9926, 85 FR 76947, Nov. 30, 2020]




