# § 1300.33   Vouchers and project agreements.

(a) *General.* Each State shall submit official vouchers for expenses incurred to the Regional Administrator.


(b) *Content of vouchers.* At a minimum, each voucher shall provide the following information, broken down by individual project agreement:


(1) Project agreement number for which work was performed and payment is sought;


(2) Amount of Federal funds sought, up to the amount identified in § 1300.12(b)(2);


(3) Eligible use of funds;


(4) Amount of Federal funds allocated to local expenditure (provided no less than mid-year (by March 31) and with the final voucher); and


(5) Matching rate (or special matching writeoff used, *i.e.,* sliding scale rate authorized under 23 U.S.C. 120).


(c) *Project agreements.* Copies of each project agreement for which expenses are being claimed under the voucher (and supporting documentation for the vouchers) shall be made promptly available for review by the Regional Administrator upon request. Each project agreement shall bear the project agreement number to allow the Regional Administrator to match the voucher to the corresponding project.


(d) *Submission requirements.* At a minimum, vouchers shall be submitted to the Regional Administrator on a quarterly basis, no later than 15 working days after the end of each quarter, except that where a State receives funds by electronic transfer at an annualized rate of one million dollars or more, vouchers shall be submitted on a monthly basis, no later than 15 working days after the end of each month. A final voucher for the fiscal year shall be submitted to the Regional Administrator no later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year, and all unexpended balances shall be carried forward to the next fiscal year unless they have lapsed in accordance with § 1300.41.


(e) *Payment.* (1) Failure to provide the information specified in paragraph (b) of this section shall result in rejection of the voucher.


(2) Vouchers that request payment for projects whose project agreement numbers or amounts claimed do not match the projects or exceed the estimated amount of Federal funds provided under § 1300.12(b)(2) shall be rejected, in whole or in part, until an amended project and/or estimated amount of Federal funds is submitted and, if required, approved by the Regional Administrator in accordance with § 1300.32.


(3) Failure to meet the deadlines specified in paragraph (d) of this section may result in delayed payment.






