# ยง 176.210   Defoaming agents used in the manufacture of paper and paperboard.

Defoaming agents may be safely used in the manufacture of paper and paperboard intended for use in packaging, transporting, or holding food in accordance with the following prescribed conditions:


(a) The defoaming agents are prepared from one or more of the substances named in paragraph (d) of this section, subject to any prescribed limitations. 


(b) The defoaming agents are used to prevent or control the formation of foam during the manufacture of paper and paperboard prior to and during the sheet-forming process.


(c) The quantity of defoaming agent or agents added during the manufacturing process shall not exceed the amount necessary to accomplish the intended technical effect.


(d) Substances permitted to be used in the formulation of defoaming agents include substances subject to prior sanctions or approval for such use and employed subject to the conditions of such sanctions or approvals, substances generally recognized as safe for use in food, substances generally recognized as safe for use in paper and paperboard, and substances listed in this paragraph, subject to the limitations, if any, prescribed.


(1) Fatty triglycerides, and the fatty acids, alcohols, and dimers derived therefrom:


(2) Fatty triglycerides, and marine oils, and the fatty acids and alcohols derived therefrom (paragraph (d)(1) of this section) reacted with one or more of the following, with or without dehydration, to form chemicals of the category indicated in parentheses:


(3) Miscellaneous:



---

[N] [42 FR 14554, Mar. 15, 1977, as amended at 47 FR 17986, Apr. 27, 1982; 47 FR 46495, Oct. 19, 1982; 47 FR 56845, Dec. 21, 1982; 54 FR 24897, June 12, 1989; 57 FR 31313, July 15, 1992; 61 FR 14246, Apr. 1, 1996]




