# § 618.735   Waiver of training requirement for Basic Trade Readjustment Allowances.

(a) *Waiver for Basic TRA.* A State may issue a waiver of the requirement in § 618.720(g) that an AAW be enrolled in or participating in approved training as a condition of Basic TRA eligibility upon a finding that training for such worker is not feasible or appropriate for one or more reasons identified in paragraph (b) of this section. The waiver must contain the information required in paragraph (c) of this section. No waiver of the training requirement is permitted for Additional TRA or Completion TRA eligibility. Waivers must be issued no later than the latest of the applicable deadlines described in § 618.725.


(b) *Bases for a waiver.* The State, in order to issue a written waiver to an AAW, must conclude after assessing the worker that training is not feasible or appropriate for one or more of the reasons in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section, which must be cited on the waiver:


(1) *Health.* The worker is unable to participate in training due to the health of the worker. A waiver granted for this reason does not exempt the worker from requirements relating to the availability for work, active search for work, or refusal to accept work under Federal or State unemployment compensation laws.


(2) *Enrollment unavailable.* The first available enrollment date for approved training is within 60 consecutive calendar days after the date on which a waiver determination is made or, if later, there are extenuating circumstances, as determined under the criteria in § 618.725(a)(3), that apply to the delay in enrollment in training.


(3) *Training not available.* Approved training is not reasonably available to the worker from governmental agencies or private sources (which may include area vocational education schools, as defined in section 3 of the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act (20 U.S.C. 2302), and employers), or suitable training is not available at a reasonable cost, or no training funds are available.


(c) *Contents of a waiver.* (1) A waiver issued under this section may not take effect unless it contains, at a minimum, the following information:


(i) The AAW's name and a unique identifying designation used by the State;


(ii) The name and location of the worker group and the petition number under which the AAW's group was certified;


(iii) A statement of the reasons why training is not feasible or appropriate for the AAW, citing to one or more reasons identified in paragraph (b) of this section;


(iv) The effective date and expiration date of the waiver;


(v) A statement that the waiver must be revoked immediately upon a determination that the basis or bases for the waiver no longer apply; and


(vi) The signature of an official of the State authorized to grant the waiver, and the signature of the AAW or other evidence of the worker's acknowledgement of receipt of the waiver.


(2) Waivers and the required signatures may be issued and maintained electronically.


(d) *Request for a waiver.* States may analyze whether an AAW may qualify for a waiver as part of the AAW's initial assessment, as described in subpart C of this part. An AAW may also request a waiver from the State before the applicable deadline in § 618.725.


(e) *Denial of a waiver.* In any case in which a determination is made to deny a waiver under this section, the AAW to whom the denial pertains must be furnished with a notice of the denial of waiver. The notice of denial of waiver must contain, at minimum, the information in paragraphs (c)(1)(i), (ii), and (vi) of this section; the specific reason(s) for the denial; the date of the denial; and notice of the AAW's appeal rights.


(f) *Duration of a waiver.* (1) A waiver issued under this section may be for a period not to exceed 6 months, or the AAW's period of Basic TRA entitlement, whichever ends first;


(2) Notwithstanding the 6-month limitation in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, a State may extend an AAW's waiver beyond 6 months if:


(i) Training continues not to be feasible or appropriate for such worker for one or more of the reasons described in paragraph (b) of this section; and


(ii) Such worker has not yet exhausted his or her Basic TRA entitlement.


(3) Waivers must be reviewed 3 months after the date on which the State issues the waiver to determine if one or more of the bases in paragraph (b) of this section continue to apply, and every 30 consecutive calendar days thereafter.


(g) *Revocation of a waiver.* The State must revoke a waiver issued under this section if the waiver criteria are no longer met. The State must notify the AAW of the revocation. The notice of revocation must be appealable and must contain the same information as a denial of waiver issued under paragraph (e) of this section.


(h) *Submission of waivers and notices.* The State must develop procedures for compiling and reporting on the number of waivers issued and revoked, by reason, and must submit to the Department, only upon specific request, a record or copy of any or all waivers issued under this section together with a statement of reasons for each such waiver, and a record or copy of any or all notices of revocation of waiver issued under this section together with a statement of reasons for each such revocation. The statements of reason required under paragraphs (c)(1)(iii) and (e) of this section, as applicable, fulfill the requirement for a statement of reasons under this paragraph (h). Electronic records and copies are acceptable.




