# ยง 1918.55   Cranes (See also ยง 1918.11).

The following requirements shall apply to the use of cranes forming part of a vessel's permanent equipment. 


(a) *Defects.* Cranes with a visible or known defect that affects safe operation shall not be used. Defects shall be reported immediately to the officer in charge of the vessel. 


(b) *Operator's station.* (1) Cranes with missing, broken, cracked, scratched, or dirty glass (or equivalent) that impairs operator visibility shall not be used. 


(2) Clothing, tools and equipment shall be stored so as not to interfere with access, operation or the operator's view. 


(c) *Cargo operations.* (1) Accessible areas within the swing radius of the body of a revolving crane or within the travel of a shipboard gantry crane shall be physically guarded or other equally effective means shall be taken during operations to prevent an employee from being caught between the body of the crane and any fixed structure, or between parts of the crane. Verbal warnings to employees to avoid the dangerous area do not meet this requirement. 


(2) Limit switch bypass systems shall be secured during all cargo operations. Such bypass systems shall not be used except in an emergency or during non-cargo handling operations such as stowing cranes or derricks or performing repairs. Any time a bypass system is used, it shall be done only under the direction of an officer of the vessel. 


(3) Under all operating conditions, at least three full turns of rope shall remain on ungrooved drums, and two full turns on grooved drums. 


(4) Crane brakes shall be monitored during use. If crane brakes are unable to hold the load, the crane shall not be used. 


(5) Cranes shall not be used if control levers operate with excessive friction or excessive play. 


(6) When cranes are equipped with power down capability, there shall be no free fall of the gear when a load is attached. 


(7) When two or more cranes hoist a load in unison, a designated person shall direct the operation and instruct personnel in positioning, rigging of the gear and movements to be made. 


(d) *Unattended cranes.* When cranes are left unattended between work periods, ยง 1918.66(b) (4)(i) through (v) shall apply. 




