# § 777.14   Maps and plans: General requirements.

(a) Maps submitted with applications shall be presented in a consolidated format, to the extent possible, and shall include all the types of information that are set forth on topographic maps of the U.S. Geological Survey of the 1:24,000 scale series. Maps of the permit area shall be at a scale of 1:6,000 or larger. Maps of the adjacent area shall clearly show the lands and waters within those areas and be in a scale determined by the regulatory authority, but in no event smaller than 1:24,000.


(b) All maps and plans submitted with the application shall distinguish among each of the phases during which surface coal mining operations were or will be conducted at any place within the life of operations. At a minimum, distinctions shall be clearly shown among those portions of the life of operations in which surface coal mining operations occurred—


(1) Prior to August 3, 1977;


(2) After August 3, 1977, and prior to either—


(i) May 3, 1978; or


(ii) In the case of an applicant or operator which obtained a small operator's exemption in accordance with § 710.12 of this chapter, January 1, 1979;


(3) After May 3, 1978 (or January 1, 1979, for persons who received a small operator's exemption) and prior to the approval of the applicable regulatory program;


(4) After the estimated date of issuance of a permit by the regulatory authority under the approved regulatory program.



---

[N] [48 FR 44398, as amended at 81 FR 93327, Dec. 20, 2016; 82 FR 54947, Nov. 17, 2017]




