# § 985.203   Assessment indicators and HUD verification methods.

(a) This section describes the performance indicators used to assess a PHA's designation as troubled resulting from the small rural PHA assessment. HUD will use the verification method identified for each indicator. The four indicators are determined on a pass or fail basis.


(b)(1) *Inspection standards.* This indicator shows whether the PHA applied the correct inspection standards to HCV and PBV unit inspections.


(2) *HUD verification method.* The PHA's assessment certification and on-site HUD review when applicable.


(3) *Rating.* The PHA passes the indicator if it applied the correct inspection standards for all unit HCV and PBV unit inspections conducted during the assessment period. If the PHA applied the incorrect inspection standards for any HCV or PBV unit inspection during the assessment period, the PHA fails the indicator.


(c)(1) *Initial unit inspections.* This indicator determines if the PHA conducted the initial HQS inspections within the required time period.


(2) *HUD verification method.* HUD systems show percent of newly leased units where the beginning date of the assistance contract is before the date the unit passed the initial unit inspection or, if the PHA employed the PHA initial inspection option for non-life-threatening deficiencies or alternative inspections, the timing requirements for the applicable PHA initial inspection option.


(3) *Rating.* The PHA passes the indicator if at least 98 percent of units placed under HAP contract during the assessment period passed the initial PHA HQS inspection within the required time period. If fewer than 98 percent of units placed under HAP contract during the assessment period passed the HQS inspection within the required time periods, the PHA fails the indicator.


(d)(1) *Frequency of HQS inspections.* This indicator shows, for units that have been under HAP contract for at least three years, whether the PHA re-inspected tenant-based units under HAP contract and the required sample of PBV units at least once during the three-year period from the last PHA inspection.


(2) *HUD verification method.* HUD systems show the percentage of units that have been under HAP contract for at least three years that have been re-inspected within the required three-year period from the last inspection.


(3) *Rating.* The PHA passes the indicator if at least 98 percent of the units that have been under HAP contract for at least three years have been re-inspected within the required three-year period from the last inspection. The PHA fails the indicator if fewer than 98 percent of these units have been re-inspected within the required three-year period.


(e)(1) *Unit condition enforcement.* This indicator shows whether, following the inspection of a unit under contract where the unit fails to meet the required standards, any cited life-threatening and non-life-threatening deficiencies are corrected within the required cure period in accordance with §§ 982.404 and 983.103 of this chapter. In addition, if HQS deficiencies are not corrected timely, the indicator shows whether the PHA stops (abates) housing assistance payments beginning no later than the first of the month following the specified correction period or terminates the HAP contract or, for family-caused defects, takes prompt and vigorous action to enforce the family obligations. (§ 982.404 of this chapter)


(2) *HUD verification method.* The PHA certification and on-site HUD review (if performed), and HUD system data.


(3) *Rating.* In order to pass the indicator, the applicable verification method, which may include sampling, determines that the PHA took corrective action within the required timeframes for at least 98 percent of inspections with identified life-threatening or other HQS deficiencies.


(f)(1) *PHA submission of certifications.* The PHA must submit its certifications for the applicable indicators within the designated timeframe required by HUD, and in the form and manner as required by HUD. HUD will issue instructions on the submission of PHA certifications by _Federal Register_ notification, which will be subject to public comment.


(2) *Failure to submit.* Failure of the PHA to submit any certification in accordance with this paragraph will result in the PHA failing the indicator and being designated as troubled under the small rural PHA assessment.






