# § 555.105   Distributions to limited permittees.

(a) [Reserved]


(b) *Distributions to holders of limited permits on and after May 24, 2003.* (1) This section will apply in any case where distribution of explosive materials to the distributee is not otherwise prohibited by the Act or this part.


(2) A licensed importer, licensed manufacturer or a licensed dealer may distribute explosive materials to a holder of a limited permit if such permittee is a resident of the same State in which the licensee's business premises are located, the holder of the limited permit presents in person or by mail ATF Form 5400.4, Limited Permittee Transaction Report (LPTR), and the licensee completes Form 5400.4 in accordance with § 555.126(b). In no event will a licensee distribute explosive materials to a holder of a limited permit unless the holder presents a Form 5400.4 with an original unaltered and unexpired Intrastate Purchase of Explosives Coupon (IPEC), ATF Form 5400.30, affixed. The coupon must bear the name, address, permit number, and the coupon number of the limited permittee seeking distribution of the explosives.


(3) A holder of a limited permit is authorized to receive explosive materials from a licensee or permittee whose premises are located in the same State of residence in which the premises of the holder of the limited permit are located on no more than 6 separate occasions during the one-year period of the permit. For purposes of this section, the term “6 separate occasions” means six deliveries of explosive materials. Each delivery must—


(i) Relate to a single purchase transaction made on one ATF F 5400.4;


(ii) Be referenced on one commercial invoice or purchase order; and


(iii) Be delivered to the holder of the limited permit in one shipment delivered at the same time.


(4) A holder of a user permit may dispose of surplus stocks of explosive materials to a licensee or holder of a user permit, or a holder of a limited permit who is a resident of the same State in which the premises of the holder of the user permit are located. A holder of a limited permit may dispose of surplus stocks of explosive materials to another holder of a limited permit who is a resident of the same State in which the premises of the distributor are located, if the transaction complies with the requirements of paragraph (b)(2) of this section and § 555.126(b). A holder of a limited permit may also dispose of surplus stocks of explosive materials to a licensee or holder of a user permit if the disposition occurs in the State of residence of the holder of the limited permit. (*See* § 555.103.)


(5) Each holder of a limited permit ordering explosive materials must furnish the distributing licensee prior to or with the first order of the explosive materials a current list of the names of employees authorized to accept delivery of explosive materials on behalf of the limited permittee. The distributee ordering explosive materials must keep the list current and provide updated lists to licensees and holders of user permits on a timely basis. A licensed importer, licensed manufacturer, licensed dealer, or permittee, selling or otherwise distributing explosive materials to a holder of a limited permit must, prior to delivering the explosive materials, obtain from the limited permittee a current list of persons who are authorized to accept deliveries of explosive materials on behalf of the limited permittee. A licensee or permittee may not deliver explosive materials to a person whose name does not appear on the list.


(6)(i) *Delivery at the distributor's premises.* Where possession of explosive materials is transferred directly to the distributee at the distributor's premises, the distributor must obtain an executed Form 5400.4 in accordance with § 555.126(b) and must in all instances verify the identity of the person accepting possession on behalf of the distributee by examining an identification document (as defined in § 555.11) before relinquishing possession.


(ii) *Delivery by distributor.* Where possession of explosive materials is transferred by the distributor to the distributee away from the distributor's premises, the distributor must obtain an executed Form 5400.4 in accordance with § 555.126(b) and must in all instances verify the identity of the person accepting possession on behalf of the distributee by examining an identification document (as defined in § 555.11) before relinquishing possession.


(iii) *Delivery by common or contract carrier hired by the distributor.* Where a common or contract carrier hired by the distributor will transport explosive materials from the distributor to a holder of a limited permit:


(A) The limited permittee must, prior to delivery of the explosive materials, complete the appropriate section on Form 5400.4, affix to the Form 5400.4 one of the six IPECs he has been issued, and provide the form to the distributor in person or by mail.


(B) The distributor must, before relinquishing possession of the explosive materials to the common or contract carrier:


(*1*) Verify the identity of the person accepting possession for the common or contract carrier by examining such person's valid, unexpired driver's license issued by any State, Canada, or Mexico; and


(*2*) Record the name of the common or contract carrier (*i.e.,* the name of the driver's employer) and the full name of the driver. This information must be maintained in the distributor's permanent records in accordance with § 555.121.


(C) At the time of delivery of the explosive materials, the common or contract carrier, as agent for the distributor, must verify the identity of the person accepting delivery on behalf of the distributee, note the type and number of the identification document (as defined in § 555.11) and provide this information to the distributor. The distributor must enter this information in the appropriate section on Form 5400.4.


(iv) *Delivery by common or contract carrier hired by the distributee.* Where a common or contract carrier hired by the distributee will transport explosive materials from the distributor to a holder of a limited permit:


(A) The limited permittee must, prior to delivery of the explosive materials, complete the appropriate section on Form 5400.4, affix to the Form 5400.4 one of the six IPECs he has been issued, and provide the form to the distributor in person or by mail.


(B) Before the delivery at the distributor's premises to the common or contract carrier who will transport explosive materials to the holder of a limited permit, the distributor must:


(*1*) Verify the identity of the person accepting possession for the common or contract carrier by examining such person's valid, unexpired driver's license issued by any State, Canada, or Mexico; and


(*2*) Record the name of the common or contract carrier (*i.e.,* the name of the driver's employer) and the full name of the driver. This information must be maintained in the distributor's permanent records in accordance with § 555.121.


(7) A licensee or permittee disposing of surplus stock may sell or distribute commercially manufactured black powder in quantities of 50 pounds or less to a holder of a limited permit, nonlicensee, or nonpermittee if the black powder is intended to be used solely for sporting, recreational, or cultural purposes in antique firearms as defined in 18 U.S.C. 921(a)(16), or in antique devices as exempted from the term “destructive device” in 18 U.S.C. 921(a)(4).



---

[N] [ATF No. 1, 68 FR 13788, Mar. 20, 2003, as amended by ATF No. 2, 68 FR 53513, Sept. 11, 2003; ATF 2017R-21, 84 FR 13799, Apr. 8, 2019]




