# ยง 204.7   Supplemental reserve requirement.

(a) *Finding by Board.* Upon the affirmative vote of at least five members of the Board and after consultation with the Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, and the National Credit Union Administration Board, the Board may impose a supplemental reserve requirement on every depository institution of not more than 4 percent of its total transaction accounts. A supplemental reserve requirement may be imposed if: 


(1) The sole purpose of the requirement is to increase the amount of reserves maintained to a level essential for the conduct of monetary policy; 


(2) The requirement is not imposed for the purpose of reducing the cost burdens resulting from the imposition of basic reserve requirements; 


(3) Such requirement is not imposed for the purpose of increasing the amount of balances needed for clearing purposes; and 


(4) On the date on which supplemental reserve requirements are imposed, the total amount of basic reserve requirements is not less than the amount of reserves that would be required on transaction accounts and nonpersonal time deposits under the initial reserve ratios established by the Monetary Control Act of 1980 (Pub. L. 96-221) in effect on September 1, 1980. 


(b) *Term.* (1) If a supplemental reserve requirement has been imposed for a period of one year or more, the Board shall review and determine the need for continued maintenance of supplemental reserves and shall transmit annual reports to the Congress regarding the need for continuing such requirement. 


(2) Any supplemental reserve requirement shall terminate at the close of the first 90-day period after the requirement is imposed during which the average amount of supplemental reserves required are less than the amount of reserves which would be required if the ratios in effect on September 1, 1980, were applied. 


(c) *Earnings Participation Account.* A depository institutions's supplemental reserve requirement shall be maintained by the Federal Reserve Banks in an Earnings Participation Account. Such balances shall receive earnings to be paid by the Federal Reserve Banks during each calendar quarter at a rate not to exceed the rate earned on the securities portfolio of the Federal Reserve System during the previous calendar quarter. Additional rules and regulations maybe prescribed by the Board concerning the payment of earnings on Earnings Participation Accounts by Federal Reserve Banks. 


(d) *Report to Congress.* The Board shall transmit promptly to the Congress a report stating the basis for exercising its authority to require a supplemental reserve under this section. 


(e) *Reserve requirements.* At present, there are no supplemental reserve requirements imposed under this section. 



---

[N] [45 FR 56018, Aug. 22, 1980, as amended at 45 FR 81537, Dec. 11, 1980. Redesignated at 74 FR 25639, May 29, 2009]




