# § 983.103   Inspecting units.

(a) *Pre-selection inspection.* If the units to be assisted already exist, the PHA must inspect all units before the proposal or project selection date and must determine if the project meets the definition of existing housing. If the project is existing housing, the PHA may not execute the HAP contract until all units meet the initial inspection requirements in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.


(b) *Initial inspection of newly constructed and rehabilitated projects and units that underwent substantial improvement to be added to a HAP contract.* Following completion of work pursuant to § 983.155, the PHA must complete the following inspection(s), as applicable in accordance with § 983.156:


(1) For rehabilitated housing that is developed prior to the HAP contract term or newly constructed housing, the PHA must inspect each proposed newly constructed and rehabilitated PBV unit before execution of the HAP contract. Each proposed PBV unit must fully comply with HQS prior to HAP contract execution.


(2) For rehabilitated housing that will undergo development activity after HAP contract execution per § 983.157, the PHA must conduct unit inspections in accordance with the requirements of § 983.157.


(3) Inspect each unit that underwent substantial improvement pursuant to §§ 983.207(d) or 983.212. Each PBV unit that underwent substantial improvement must fully comply with HQS prior to the PHA adding the unit to the HAP contract, returning the unit temporarily removed to the HAP contract, allowing re-occupancy of the unit, and resuming housing assistance payments, as applicable.


(c) *Initial inspection requirements for existing housing*—(1) *In general.* In accordance with this paragraph, the PHA may adopt in its Administrative Plan the non-life-threatening deficiencies option or the alternative inspection option, or both, for initial inspections of existing housing. If the PHA has not adopted the initial inspection non-life-threatening deficiency option (NLT option) or the alternative inspection option for the project, the PHA must inspect and determine that all of the proposed PBV units fully comply with HQS before entering the HAP contract. The PHA must establish in its Administrative Plan the amount of time that may elapse between the initial inspection of existing housing and execution of a HAP contract for that unit.


(2) *Initial inspection—NLT option.* (i) A PHA may execute the HAP contract and begin making assistance payments for all of the assisted units, including units that failed the initial HQS inspection, provided that no units have life-threatening deficiencies and if the owner agrees to the NLT option. If the PHA has established and the unit is covered by both the NLT option and the alternative inspections option under paragraph (c)(3) of this section for the initial HQS inspection, see paragraph (c)(4) of this section.


(ii) After completing the inspections and determining there are no life-threatening deficiencies, for any unit with non-life-threatening deficiencies, the PHA must provide both the owner and the family (any eligible in-place family (§ 983.251(d)) or any family referred from the PBV waiting list being offered that unit) a list of the non-life-threatening deficiencies identified by the initial HQS inspection and an explanation of the maximum amount of time the PHA will withhold HAP before abating assistance if the owner does not complete the repairs within 30 days. The PHA must also inform the family that if the family accepts the unit and the owner fails to make the repairs within the cure period, which may not exceed 180 days from the effective date of the HAP contract, the PHA will remove the unit from the HAP contract, and the family will be issued a voucher to move to another unit in order to receive voucher assistance. If the PHA's Administrative Plan provides that the PHA will terminate the PBV HAP contract if the owner fails to correct deficiencies in any unit in the project within the cure period, the PHA must also provide the notice described above to families referred to units without any deficiencies. The family referred from the waiting list may choose to decline the unit and remain on the waiting list. An eligible in-place family may decline the unit, and the PHA must issue the family a tenant-based voucher to move from the unit in that circumstance.


(iii) If the family decides to lease the unit, the family enters into the assisted lease with the owner. The PHA commences making assistance payments to the owner.


(iv) The owner must correct the deficiencies within 30 days from the effective date of the HAP contract. If the owner fails to correct the deficiencies within the 30-day cure period, the PHA must withhold the housing assistance payments for the unit until the owner makes the repairs and the PHA verifies the correction. Once the deficiencies are corrected, the PHA must use the withheld housing assistance payments to make payments for the period that payments were withheld.


(v) The PHA must state in its Administrative Plan the maximum amount of time it will withhold payments before abating payments and the number of days after which the PHA will either terminate the PBV HAP contract or remove the unit from the HAP contract as a result of the owner's failure to correct the deficiencies, which may not exceed 180 days from the effective date of the HAP contract. If the PHA terminates the PBV HAP contract or removes the unit from the HAP contract as a result of the owner's failure to correct the deficiencies, the PHA must provide any affected family tenant-based assistance as provided in § 983.206(b).


(vi) The owner may not terminate the tenancy of a family because of the withholding or abatement of assistance payments. During any period the assistance is abated under the NLT option, the family may terminate the tenancy by notifying the owner and the PHA, and the PHA must provide the family tenant-based assistance. In the case of an in-place family, the family may also choose to terminate the tenancy during the withholding period following the 30-day cure period, and the PHA must offer the family either another assisted unit in the PBV project that fully complies with HQS or tenant-based assistance.


(3) *Initial inspection—alternative inspection option.* The PHA may adopt the alternative inspection option for initial inspections of existing housing, subject to the procedures and requirements specified in 24 CFR 982.406(b), (c), (d), and (g).


(i) After the PHA determines the project meets the definition of existing housing in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, the PHA may execute the HAP contract for the project if the project has been inspected in the previous 24 months using an alternative inspection that meets the requirements of 24 CFR 982.406, as opposed to re-inspecting the project to make sure all units fully comply with HQS before executing the HAP contract, if the owner agrees to the use of the alternative inspection option. If the PHA has established and the unit is covered by both the NLT option under paragraph (c)(2) of this section and the alternative inspection option for the initial HQS inspection, see paragraph (c)(4) of this section.


(ii) The PHA notifies all families (any eligible in-place family (§ 983.251(d)) or any family referred from the PBV waiting list being offered a contract unit) that will occupy a contract unit before the PHA conducts the HQS inspection that the alternative inspection option is in effect for the project. The PHA must provide each family with the PHA list of HQS deficiencies that are considered life-threatening as part of this notification. A family on the waiting list may decline to accept an offered unit due to unit conditions and retain its place on the PBV waiting list.


(iii) The PHA must conduct an HQS inspection within 30 days of the proposal or project selection date. If the family reports a deficiency to the PHA prior to the PHA's inspection, the PHA must inspect the unit within the time period required under paragraph (f) of this section or within 30 days of the effective date of the HAP contract, whichever time period ends first.


(iv) The PHA may not commence housing assistance payments to the owner until the PHA has inspected all the units under the HAP contract and determined they meet HQS.


(v) If the PHA inspection finds that any contract unit contains HQS deficiencies, the PHA may not make housing assistance payments to the owner until all the deficiencies have been corrected in all contract units. If a deficiency is life-threatening, the owner must correct the deficiency within 24 hours of notification from the PHA. For other deficiencies, the owner must correct the deficiency within 30 calendar days (or any PHA-approved extension) of notification from the PHA. If the owner corrects the deficiencies within the required cure period, the PHA makes the housing assistance payments retroactive to the effective date of the HAP contract or the PBV lease effective dates, whichever is later.


(vi) The PHA establishes in the Administrative Plan the maximum amount of time it will withhold payments if the owner does not correct the deficiencies within the required cure period before abating payments and the date by which the PHA will either remove the unit from the HAP contract or terminate the HAP contract for the owner's failure to correct the deficiencies, which may not exceed 180 days from the effective date of the HAP contract. If the PHA terminates the PBV HAP contract or removes the unit from the HAP contract as a result of the owner's failure to correct the deficiencies, the PHA must provide any affected family tenant-based assistance as provided in § 983.206(b) of this title.


(vii) If the owner fails to make the repairs within the applicable time periods, the PHA must abate the payments for the non-compliant units, while continuing to withhold payments for the HQS compliant units until all the units meet HQS or the unit removal or contract termination occurs. If the deficiencies are corrected, the PHA must use the withheld housing assistance payments to make payments for the period that payments were withheld.


(viii) The owner may not terminate the tenancy of a family because of the withholding or abatement of assistance payments. During the abatement period, a family may terminate the tenancy by notifying the owner, and the PHA must provide the family tenant-based assistance. If the PHA terminates the PBV HAP contract or removes the unit from the HAP contract as a result of the owner's failure to correct the deficiencies, the PHA must provide any affected family tenant-based assistance as provided in § 983.206(b) of this title.


(4) *Initial inspection—use of both the NLT and alternative options.* The PHA may adopt both the NLT option and the alternative inspection option for initial inspections of existing housing, subject to the procedures and requirements specified in 24 CFR 982.406(b), (c), (d), and (g).


(i) If the owner agrees to both the NLT option and the alternative inspection option, then the PHA notifies all families (any eligible in-place family (§ 983.251(d)) or any family referred from the PBV waiting list that will occupy the unit before the PHA conducts the HQS inspection) that both the NLT option and the alternative inspection option will be used for the family's unit. As part of this notification, the PHA must provide the family with the PHA's list of HQS deficiencies that are considered life-threatening. A family on the waiting list may decline to move into a unit due to unit conditions and retain its place on the PBV waiting list. Following inspection (see paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section), the PHA must provide any family referred from the PBV waiting list that will occupy a unit with non-life-threatening deficiencies a list of the non-life-threatening deficiencies identified by the initial HQS inspection and an explanation of the maximum amount of time the PHA will withhold HAP before abating assistance if the owner does not complete the repairs within 30 days. The PHA must also inform the family that if the family accepts the unit and the owner fails to make the repairs within the cure period, which may not exceed 180 days from the effective date of the HAP contract, the PHA will remove the unit from the HAP contract, and the family will be issued a voucher to move to another unit in order to receive voucher assistance. The family referred from the waiting list may choose to decline the unit and remain on the PBV waiting list.


(ii) The PHA executes the HAP contract with the owner on the basis of the alternative inspection. The PHA must conduct an HQS inspection within 30 days after the proposal or project selection date. If the family reports a deficiency to the PHA during this interim period, the PHA must inspect the unit within the time period required under paragraph (f) of this section or within 30 days of the proposal or project selection date, whichever time period ends first.


(iii) The PHA may not make housing assistance payments to the owner until the PHA has inspected all the assisted units.


(iv) If none of the units have any life-threatening deficiencies, the PHA commences payments and makes retroactive payments to the effective date of the HAP contract or the PBV lease effective dates, whichever is later, for all the assisted units. For any unit that failed the PHA's HQS inspection but has no life-threatening deficiencies, the owner must correct the deficiencies within no more than 30 days from the effective date of the HAP contract. If the owner fails to correct the deficiencies within the 30-day cure period, the PHA must withhold the housing assistance payments for that unit until the owner makes the repairs and the PHA verifies the correction. Once the unit is in compliance with HQS, the PHA must use the withheld housing assistance payments to make payments for the period that payments were withheld.


(v) If any units have life-threatening deficiencies, the PHA may not commence making housing assistance payments to the owner for any units until all the HQS deficiencies (life-threatening and non-life-threatening) have been corrected. The PHA must not refer families from the PBV waiting list to occupy units with life-threatening deficiencies. The owner must correct all life-threatening deficiencies within no more than 24 hours. For other deficiencies, the owner must correct the deficiency within no more than 30 calendar days (or any PHA-approved extension). If the owner corrects all of the deficiencies within the required cure period, the PHA must make the housing assistance payments retroactive to the effective date of the HAP contract or the PBV lease effective dates, whichever is later. If the owner fails to make the repairs within the applicable time periods, the PHA must abate the payments for the non-compliant units, while continuing to withhold payments for the HQS compliant units until all the units meet HQS or the unit removal or contract termination occurs. If the deficiencies are corrected, the PHA must use the withheld housing assistance payments to make payments for the period that payments were withheld.


(vi) The owner may not terminate the tenancy of the family because of the withholding or abatement of assistance payments. During the period the assistance is abated, a family may terminate the tenancy by notifying the owner, and the PHA must provide the family tenant-based assistance. If the PHA terminates the PBV HAP contract or removes the unit from the HAP contract as a result of the owner's failure to correct the deficiencies, the PHA must provide any affected family with tenant-based assistance as provided in § 983.206(b) of this title. The PHA must establish in its Administrative Plan:


(A) The maximum amount of time it will withhold payments if the owner fails to correct the deficiencies within the required cure period before abating payments; and


(B) The number of days after which the PHA will terminate the HAP contract or remove the unit from the HAP contract for the owner's failure to correct the deficiencies, which may not exceed 180 days from the effective date of the HAP contract.


(d) *Turnover inspections.* Before providing assistance to a new family in a contract unit, the PHA must inspect the unit. The PHA must not provide assistance on behalf of a family for a unit that fails to comply fully with HQS.


(e) *Periodic inspections.* (1) At least biennially during the term of the HAP contract, the PHA must inspect a random sample, consisting of at least 20 percent of the contract units in each building, to determine if the contract units and the premises are maintained in accordance with HQS. Turnover inspections pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section are not counted toward meeting this inspection requirement. Instead of biennially, a small rural PHA, as defined in § 902.101 of this title, must inspect the random sample of units in accordance with this paragraph at least once every three years. The PHA must establish in its Administrative Plan the frequency of periodic inspections. This requirement applies in the case of a HAP contract that is undergoing development activity after HAP contract execution per § 983.157; however, if the periodic inspection occurs during the period of development activity covered by the rider and fewer than 20 percent of contract units in each building are designated in the rider as available for occupancy, the PHA is only required to inspect the units in that building that are designated as available for occupancy.


(2) If more than 20 percent of the sample of inspected contract units in a building fail the initial inspection, then the PHA must reinspect 100 percent of the contract units in the building.


(3) A PHA may also use alternative inspections to meet the requirements for periodic inspections in this paragraph (e), subject to the procedures and requirements specified in 24 CFR 982.406(b), (c), (d), and (g).


(f) *Other inspections.* (1) *Interim inspections:* When a participant family or government official notifies the PHA of a potential deficiency, the following conditions apply:


(i) *Life-threatening.* If the reported deficiency is life-threatening, the PHA must, within 24 hours, both inspect the housing unit and notify the owner if the life-threatening deficiency is confirmed. The owner must then make the repairs within 24 hours of PHA notification.


(ii) *Non-life-threatening.* If the reported deficiency is non-life-threatening, the PHA must, within 15 days, both inspect the unit and notify the owner if the deficiency is confirmed. The owner must then make the repairs within 30 days of the notification from the PHA or within any PHA-approved extension.


(iii) *Extraordinary circumstances.* In the event of extraordinary circumstances, such as if a unit is within a presidentially declared disaster area, HUD may approve an exception of the 24-hour or the 15-day inspection requirement until such time as an inspection is feasible.


(2) *Follow-up inspections:* The PHA must conduct follow-up inspections needed to determine if the owner (or, if applicable, the family) has corrected an HQS violation, except where the PHA is using a verification method as described in paragraph (h) of this section, and must conduct inspections to determine the basis for exercise of contractual and other remedies for owner or family violation of the HQS. (Family HQS obligations are specified in 24 CFR 982.404(b).)


(3) *Supervisory quality control inspections:* In conducting PHA supervisory quality control HQS inspections, the PHA should include a representative sample of both tenant-based and project-based units.


(g) *Inspecting PHA-owned units.* (1) In the case of PHA-owned units, the inspections required under this section must be performed by an independent entity designated in accordance with § 983.57, rather than by the PHA.


(2) The independent entity must furnish a copy of each inspection report to the PHA.


(3) The PHA must take all necessary actions in response to inspection reports from the independent entity, including exercise of contractual remedies for violation of the HAP contract by the PHA owner.


(h) *Verification methods.* When a PHA must verify correction of a deficiency, the PHA may use verification methods other than another on-site inspection. The PHA may establish different verification methods for initial and subsequent inspections or for different HQS deficiencies, which must be detailed in its Administrative Plan. Upon either an inspection for initial occupancy or a reinspection, the PHA may accept photographic evidence or other reliable evidence from the owner to verify that a deficiency has been corrected.


(i) *Projects with government financing.* In the case of a PBV project financed under a Federal, State, or local housing program that is subject to an alternative inspection, the PHA may rely upon inspections conducted at least triennially to demonstrate compliance with the alternative inspection option under paragraph (c) of this section or the periodic inspection requirement of paragraph (e) of this section, in accordance with its policy established in the PHA Administrative Plan.



---

[N] [89 FR 38316, May 7, 2024]








