# § 1036.601   Overview of compliance provisions.

(a) Engine and vehicle manufacturers, as well as owners, operators, and rebuilders of engines subject to the requirements of this part, and all other persons, must observe the provisions of this part, the provisions of 40 CFR part 1068, and the provisions of the Clean Air Act. The provisions of 40 CFR part 1068 apply for heavy-duty highway engines as specified in that part, subject to the following provisions:


(1) The exemption provisions of 40 CFR 1068.201 through 1068.230, 1068.240, and 1068.260 through 265 apply for heavy-duty motor vehicle engines. The other exemption provisions, which are specific to nonroad engines, do not apply for heavy-duty vehicles or heavy-duty engines.


(2) Engine signals to indicate a need for maintenance under § 1036.125(a)(1)(ii) are considered an element of design of the emission control system. Disabling, resetting, or otherwise rendering such signals inoperative without also performing the indicated maintenance procedure is therefore prohibited under 40 CFR 1068.101(b)(1).


(3) The warranty-related prohibitions in section 203(a)(4) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 7522(a)(4)) apply to manufacturers of new heavy-duty highway engines in addition to the prohibitions described in 40 CFR 1068.101(b)(6). We may assess a civil penalty up to $44,539 for each engine or vehicle in violation. The civil monetary penalty amount listed in this section may not reflect recent inflation adjustments EPA is required to make. The current maximum and minimum statutory civil penalty amounts are located in § 19.4.


(b) The following provisions from 40 CFR parts 85 and 86 continue to apply after December 20, 2026 for engines subject to the requirements of this part:


(1) The tampering prohibition in 40 CFR 1068.101(b)(1) applies for alternative fuel conversions as specified in 40 CFR part 85, subpart F.


(2) Engine manufacturers must meet service information requirements as specified in 40 CFR 86.010-38(j).


(3) Provisions related to nonconformance penalties apply as described in 40 CFR part 86, subpart L. Note that nonconformance penalty provisions are not available for current or future emission standards unless we revise the regulation to specify how to apply those provisions.


(4) The manufacturer-run in-use testing program described in 40 CFR part 86, subpart T, continues to apply for engines subject to exhaust emission standards under 40 CFR part 86.


(c) The emergency vehicle field modification provisions of 40 CFR 85.1716 apply with respect to the standards of this part. Emergency vehicle field modifications under 40 CFR 85.1716 may include corresponding changes to diagnostic systems relative to the requirements in §§ 1036.110 and 1036.111. For example, the cab display required under § 1036.110(c)(1) identifying a fault condition may omit information about the timing or extent of a pending derate if an AECD will override the derate.


(d) Subpart C of this part describes how to test and certify dual-fuel and flexible-fuel engines. Some multi-fuel engines may not fit either of those defined terms. For such engines, we will determine whether it is most appropriate to treat them as single-fuel engines, dual-fuel engines, or flexible-fuel engines based on the range of possible and expected fuel mixtures. For example, an engine might burn natural gas but initiate combustion with a pilot injection of diesel fuel. If the engine is designed to operate with a single fueling algorithm (*i.e.,* fueling rates are fixed at a given engine speed and load condition), we would generally treat it as a single-fuel engine. In this context, the combination of diesel fuel and natural gas would be its own fuel type. If the engine is designed to also operate on diesel fuel alone, we would generally treat it as a dual-fuel engine. If the engine is designed to operate on varying mixtures of the two fuels, we would generally treat it as a flexible-fuel engine. To the extent that requirements vary for the different fuels or fuel mixtures, we may apply the more stringent requirements.



---

[N] [88 FR 4487, Jan. 24, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 29763, Apr. 22, 2024; 89 FR 88656, Nov. 8, 2024]






