# § 98.527   Records that must be retained.

In addition to the records required by § 98.3(g), you must retain the records specified in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section for each ceramics process unit, as applicable.


(a) If a CEMS is used to measure CO_2_ emissions according to the requirements in § 98.523(a), then you must retain under this subpart the records required under § 98.37 for the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology and the information specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.


(1) Monthly ceramics production rate for each ceramics process unit (tons).


(2) Monthly amount of each carbonate-based raw material charged to each ceramics process unit (tons).


(b) If process CO_2_ emissions are calculated according to the procedures specified in § 98.523(b), you must retain the records in paragraphs (b)(1) through (6) of this section.


(1) Monthly ceramics production rate for each ceramics process unit (metric tons).


(2) Monthly amount of each carbonate-based raw material charged to each ceramics process unit (metric tons).


(3) Data on carbonate-based mineral mass fractions provided by the raw material supplier for all raw materials consumed annually and included in calculating process emissions in equation 1 to § 98.523(b)(4), if applicable.


(4) Results of all tests, if applicable, used to verify the carbonate-based mineral mass fraction for each carbonate-based raw material charged to a ceramics process unit, including the data specified in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) through (v) of this section.


(i) Date of test.


(ii) Method(s), and any variations of methods, used in the analyses.


(iii) Mass fraction of each sample analyzed.


(iv) Relevant calibration data for the instrument(s) used in the analyses.


(v) Name and address of laboratory that conducted the tests.


(5) Each carbonate-based mineral mass fraction for each carbonate-based raw material, if a value other than 1.0 is used to calculate process mass emissions of CO_2_.


(6) Number of annual operating hours of each ceramics process unit.


(c) All other documentation used to support the reported GHG emissions.


(d) The applicable verification software records as identified in this paragraph (d). You must keep a record of the file generated by the verification software specified in § 98.5(b) for the applicable data specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section. Retention of this file satisfies the recordkeeping requirement for the data in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) Annual average decimal mass fraction of each carbonate-based mineral in each carbonate-based raw material for each ceramics process unit (specify the default value, if used, or the value determined according to § 98.524) (percent by weight, expressed as a decimal fraction) (equation 1 to § 98.523(b)(4)).


(2) Annual mass of each carbonate-based raw material charged to each ceramics process unit (tons) (equation 1 to § 98.523(b)(4)).


(3) Decimal fraction of calcination achieved for each carbonate-based raw material for each ceramics process unit (specify the default value, if used, or the value determined according to § 98.524) (percent by weight, expressed as a decimal fraction) (equation 1 to § 98.523(b)(4)).






