# § 405.1835   Right to Board hearing; contents of, and adding issues to, hearing request.

(a) Right to hearing on final contractor determination. A provider (but no other individual, entity, or party) has a right to a Board hearing, as a single provider appeal, with respect to a final contractor or Secretary determination for the provider's cost reporting period, if—


(1) The provider is dissatisfied with the contractor's final determination of the total amount of reimbursement due the provider, as set forth in the contractor's written notice specified under § 405.1803. *Exception:* If a final contractor determination is reopened under § 405.1885, any review by the Board must be limited solely to those matters that are specifically revised in the contractor's revised final determination (§§ 405.1887(d), 405.1889(b), and the “Exception” in § 405.1873(c)(2)(i)).


(2) The amount in controversy (as determined in accordance with § 405.1839) must be $10,000 or more.


(3) Unless the provider qualifies for a good cause extension under § 405.1836, the date of receipt by the Board of the provider's hearing request must be no later than 180 days after the date of receipt by the provider of the final contractor or Secretary determination.


(b) *Contents of request for a Board hearing on final contractor determination.* The provider's request for a Board hearing under paragraph (a) of this section must be submitted in writing in the manner prescribed by the Board, and the request must include the elements described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section. If the provider submits a hearing request that does not meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(1), (2), or (3) of this section, the Board may dismiss with prejudice the appeal or take any other remedial action it considers appropriate.


(1) A demonstration that the provider satisfies the requirements for a Board hearing as specified in paragraph (a) of this section, including a specific identification of the final contractor or Secretary determination under appeal.


(2) For each specific item under appeal, a separate explanation of why, and a description of how, the provider is dissatisfied with the specific aspects of the final contractor or Secretary determination under appeal, including an account of all of the following:


(i) Why the provider believes Medicare payment is incorrect for each disputed item (or, where applicable, why the provider is unable to determine whether Medicare payment is correct because it does not have access to underlying information concerning the calculation of its payment).


(ii) How and why the provider believes Medicare payment must be determined differently for each disputed item.


(iii) If the provider self-disallows a specific item (as specified in § 413.24(j) of this chapter), an explanation of the nature and amount of each self-disallowed item, the reimbursement sought for the item, and why the provider self-disallowed the item instead of claiming reimbursement for the item.


(3) A copy of the final contractor or Secretary determination under appeal and any other documentary evidence the provider considers necessary to satisfy the hearing request requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section.


(4) With respect to a provider under common ownership or control, the name and address of its parent corporation, and a statement that—


(i) To the best of the provider's knowledge, no other provider to which it is related by common ownership or control, has pending a request for a Board hearing pursuant to this section or pursuant to § 405.1837(b)(1) on any of the same issues contained in the provider's hearing request for a cost reporting period that ends within the same calendar year as the calendar year covered by the provider's hearing request; or


(ii) Such a pending appeal(s) exist(s), and the provider name(s), provider number(s), and the case number(s) (if assigned), for such appeal(s).


(c) *Right to hearing based on untimely contractor determination.* Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, a provider (but no other individual, entity, or party) has a right to a Board hearing, as a single provider appeal, for specific items for a cost reporting period if—


(1) A final contractor determination for the provider's cost reporting period is not issued (through no fault of the provider) within 12 months after the date of receipt by the contractor of the provider's perfected cost report or amended cost report (as specified in § 413.24(f) of this chapter). The date of receipt by the contractor of the provider's perfected cost report or amended cost report is presumed to be the date the contractor stamped “Received” on such cost report unless it is shown by a preponderance of the evidence that the contractor received the cost report on an earlier date.


(2) Unless the provider qualifies for a good cause extension under § 405.1836, the date of receipt by the Board of the provider's hearing request is no later than 180 days after the expiration of the 12 month period for issuance of the final contractor determination (as determined in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section); and


(3) The amount in controversy (as determined in accordance with § 405.1839) is $10,000 or more.


(d) *Contents of request for a Board hearing based on untimely contractor determination.* The provider's request for a Board hearing under paragraph (c) of this section must be submitted in writing in the manner prescribed by the Board, and the request must include the elements described in paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section. If the provider submits a hearing request that does not meet the requirements of paragraph (d)(1), (2), or (3) of this section, the Board may dismiss with prejudice the appeal or take any other remedial action it considers appropriate.


(1) A demonstration that the provider satisfies the requirements for a Board hearing as specified in paragraph (c) of this section.


(2) An explanation (for each specific item at issue) of the following:


(i) Why the provider believes Medicare payment is incorrect for each disputed item (or, where applicable, why the provider is unable to determine whether Medicare payment is correct because it does not have access to underlying information concerning the calculation of Medicare payment).


(ii) How and why the provider believes Medicare payment must be determined differently for each disputed item.


(iii) If the provider self-disallows a specific item, a description of the nature and amount of each self-disallowed item and the reimbursement or payment sought for the item.


(3) A copy of any documentary evidence the provider considers necessary to satisfy the hearing request requirements of paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section.


(4) With respect to a provider under common ownership or control, the name and address of its parent corporation, and a statement that meets all of the requirements of paragraphs (b)(4)(i) and (b)(4)(ii) of this section.


(e) *Adding issues to the hearing request.* After filing a hearing request in accordance with paragraphs (a) and (b), or paragraphs (c) and (d), of this section, a provider may add specific Medicare payment issues to the original hearing request by submitting a written request to the Board only if—


(1) The request to add issues complies with the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b), or paragraphs (c) and (d), of this section as to each new specific item at issue.


(2) The specific items raised in the initial hearing request and the specific items identified in subsequent requests to add issues, when combined, satisfy the amount in controversy requirements of paragraph (a)(2) or paragraph (c)(3) of this section.


(3) The Board receives the provider's request to add issues no later than 60 days after the expiration of the applicable 180-day period prescribed in paragraph (a)(3) or paragraph (c)(2), of this section.



---

[N] [73 FR 30249, May 23, 2008; 73 FR 49356, Aug. 21, 2008, as amended at 79 FR 50350, Aug. 22, 2014; 79 FR 59680, Oct. 3, 2014; 80 FR 70599, Nov. 13, 2015; 85 FR 59019, Sept. 18, 2020]




