# § 75.32   Initial inventory report.

(a) *Licensees of facilities.* The initial inventory report must show the quantities of nuclear material at a facility. The quantities reported in the initial inventory report must be accurate as of the last day of the calendar month in which the NRC gives notice to the licensee or certificate holder that an initial inventory report is required (the “inventory date” on DOE/NRC Form 742C).


(b) *Possessors of nuclear material outside facilities.* The initial inventory report must show the quantities of nuclear material outside facilities. The quantities reported in the initial inventory report must be accurate as of the last day of the calendar month in which the possessor of nuclear material outside facilities becomes subject to the requirements of this part (the “inventory date” on DOE/NRC Form 742C).


(c) *Initial inventory report.* The information in the initial inventory report may be based upon the accounting records. The initial inventory report must be submitted to the NRC on DOE/NRC Form 742C in accordance with the instructions in NUREG/BR-0007 and NMMSS Report D-24 “Personal Computer Data Input for NRC Licensees.” Copies of the instructions for completing DOE/NRC Form 742C and DOE/NRC Form 740M may be obtained from the following websites: *http://www.nrc.gov/reading-rm/doc-collections/nuregs/brochures* and *https://nnsa.energy.gov/aboutus/ourprograms/nuclearsecurity/nmmsshome/nmmssinfo/nmmssreports.*

(d) *Report forms.* DOE/NRC Form 742C must be accompanied by DOE/NRC Form 740M if any batch of source material reported in DOE/NRC Form 742C is equal to or less than 0.4 kg.


(e) *Report submission.* The initial inventory report must be submitted to the NRC no later than 20 days after the inventory date.



---

[N] [83 FR 19613, May 4, 2018]




