# § 191.23   Reporting safety-related conditions.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, each operator shall report in accordance with § 191.25 the existence of any of the following safety-related conditions involving facilities in service:


(1) In the case of a pipeline (other than an LNG facility) that operates at a hoop stress of 20% or more of its specified minimum yield strength, general corrosion that has reduced the wall thickness to less than that required for the maximum allowable operating pressure, and localized corrosion pitting to a degree where leakage might result.


(2) In the case of a UNGSF, general corrosion that has reduced the wall thickness of any metal component to less than that required for the well's maximum operating pressure, or localized corrosion pitting to a degree where leakage might result.


(3) Unintended movement or abnormal loading by environmental causes, such as an earthquake, landslide, or flood, that impairs the serviceability of a pipeline or the structural integrity or reliability of a UNGSF or LNG facility that contains, controls, or processes gas or LNG.


(4) Any crack or other material defect that impairs the structural integrity or reliability of a UNGSF or an LNG facility that contains, controls, or processes gas or LNG.


(5) Any material defect or physical damage that impairs the serviceability of a pipeline that operates at a hoop stress of 20% or more of its specified minimum yield strength, or the serviceability or the structural integrity of a UNGSF.


(6) Any malfunction or operating error that causes the pressure—plus the margin (build-up) allowed for operation of pressure limiting or control devices—to exceed either the maximum allowable operating pressure of a distribution or gathering line, the maximum well allowable operating pressure of an underground natural gas storage facility, or the maximum allowable working pressure of an LNG facility that contains or processes gas or LNG.


(7) A leak in a pipeline, UNGSF, or LNG facility containing or processing gas or LNG that constitutes an emergency.


(8) Inner tank leakage, ineffective insulation, or frost heave that impairs the structural integrity of an LNG storage tank.


(9) Any safety-related condition that could lead to an imminent hazard and causes (either directly or indirectly by remedial action of the operator), for purposes other than abandonment, a 20% or more reduction in operating pressure or shutdown of operation of a pipeline, UNGSF, or an LNG facility that contains or processes gas or LNG.


(10) For transmission pipelines only, each exceedance of the maximum allowable operating pressure that exceeds the margin (build-up) allowed for operation of pressure-limiting or control devices as specified in the applicable requirements of §§ 192.201, 192.620(e), and 192.739. The reporting requirement of this paragraph (a)(10) is not applicable to gathering lines, distribution lines, LNG facilities, or underground natural gas storage facilities (*See* paragraph (a)(6) of this section).


(11) Any malfunction or operating error that causes the pressure of a UNGSF using a salt cavern for natural gas storage to fall below its minimum allowable operating pressure, as defined by the facility's State or Federal operating permit or certificate, whichever pressure is higher.


(b) A report is not required for any safety-related condition that—


(1) Exists on a master meter system, a reporting-regulated gathering pipeline, a Type C gas gathering pipeline with an outside diameter of 12.75 inches or less, a Type C gas gathering pipeline covered by the exception in § 192.9(f)(1) of this subchapter and therefore not required to comply with § 192.9(e)(2)(ii), or a customer-owned service line;


(2) Is an incident or results in an incident before the deadline for filing the safety-related condition report;


(3) Exists on a pipeline (other than an UNGSF or an LNG facility) that is more than 220 yards (200 meters) from any building intended for human occupancy or outdoor place of assembly, except that reports are required for conditions within the right-of-way of an active railroad, paved road, street, or highway; or


(4) Is corrected by repair or replacement in accordance with applicable safety standards before the deadline for filing the safety-related condition report. Notwithstanding this exception, a report must be filed for:


(i) Conditions under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, unless the condition is localized corrosion pitting on an effectively coated and cathodically protected pipeline; and


(ii) Any condition under paragraph (a)(10) of this section.


(5) Exists on an UNGSF, where a well or wellhead is isolated, allowing the reservoir or cavern and all other components of the facility to continue to operate normally and without pressure restriction.



---

[N] [Amdt. 191-26, 84 FR 52242, Oct. 1, 2019; Amdt. 191-27, 85 FR 8125, Feb. 12, 2020; Amdt. 191-31, 192-131, 87 FR 26299, May 4, 2022]




