# ยง 592.4   Definitions.

All terms in this part that are defined in 49 U.S.C. 30102 and 30125 are used as defined therein.


*Administrator* means the Administrator, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.


*Convicted of a crime* means receiving a criminal conviction in the United States or in a foreign jurisdiction, whether entered on a verdict or plea, including a plea of *nolo contendere,* for which sentence has been imposed.


*Independent insurance company* means an entity that is registered with any State and authorized by that State to conduct an insurance business including the issuance or underwriting of a service insurance policy, none of whose affiliates, shareholders, officers, directors, or employees, or any person in affinity with such, is employed by, or has a financial interest in, or otherwise controls or participates in the business of, a Registered Importer to which it issues or underwrites a service insurance policy.


*NHTSA* means the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.


*Principal, with respect to a Registered Importer*, means any officer of a corporation, a general partner of a partnership, or the sole proprietor of a sole proprietorship. The term includes a director of an incorporated Registered Importer, and any person whose ownership interest in a Registered Importer is 10% or more.


*Registered Importer* means any person that the Administrator has registered as an importer pursuant to section 592.5(b).


*Safety recall* means a notification and remedy campaign conducted pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 30118-30120 to address a noncompliance with a Federal motor vehicle safety standard or a defect that relates to motor vehicle safety.


*Service insurance policy* means any policy issued or underwritten by an independent insurance company which covers a specific motor vehicle and guarantees that any noncompliance with a Federal motor vehicle safety standard or defect related to motor vehicle safety determined to exist in that vehicle will be remedied without charge to the owner of the vehicle.



---

[N] [54 FR 40090, Sept. 29, 1989, as amended at 59 FR 52098, Oct. 14, 1994; 69 FR 52094, Aug. 24, 2004; 76 FR 53079, Aug. 25, 2011]




