# § 19.1   What definitions apply to the regulations in this part?

As used in this part:


*Administrative offset or offset* means withholding funds payable by the United States (including funds payable by the United States on behalf of a state government) to, or held by the United States for, a person to satisfy a debt owed by the person. The term “administrative offset” can include, but is not limited to, the offset of Federal salary, vendor, retirement, and Social Security benefit payments. The terms “centralized administrative offset” and “centralized offset” refer to the process by which the Treasury Department's Bureau of the Fiscal Service offsets Federal payments through the Treasury Offset Program.


*Administrative wage garnishment* means the process by which a Federal agency orders a non-Federal employer to withhold amounts from a debtor's wages to satisfy a debt, as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 3720D, 31 CFR 285.11, and this part.


*Agency or Federal agency* means a department, agency, court, court administrative office, or instrumentality in the executive, judicial, or legislative branch of the Federal Government, including government corporations.


*Bureau of the Fiscal Service* means the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, a bureau of the Treasury Department, which is responsible for the centralized collection of delinquent debts through the offset of Federal payments and other means.


*Commerce debt* means a debt owed to a Commerce entity by a person.


*Commerce Department* means the United States Department of Commerce.


*Commerce entity* means a component of the Commerce Department, including offices or bureaus. Commerce offices currently include the Office of the Secretary of Commerce, and the Office of Inspector General. Commerce bureaus currently include the Bureau of Industry and Security, the Economics and Statistics Administration (including the Bureau of Economic Analysis, and the Bureau of the Census), the Economic Development Administration, the International Trade Administration, the Minority Business Development Agency, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the National Telecommunications and Information Administration, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, and the Technology Administration (including the National Institute of Standards and Technology, and the National Technical Information Service).


*Creditor* agency means any Federal agency that is owed a debt.


*Day* means calendar day except when express reference is made to business day, which reference shall mean Monday through Friday. For purposes of time computation, the last day of the period provided will be included in the calculation unless that day is a Saturday, a Sunday, or a Federal legal holiday; in which case, the next business day will be included.


*Debt* means any amount of money, funds or property that has been determined by an appropriate official of the Federal Government to be owed to the United States by a person. As used in this part, the term “debt” can include a Commerce debt but does not include debts arising under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 1 *et seq.*).


*Debtor* means a person who owes a debt to the United States.


*Delinquent debt* means a debt that has not been paid by the date specified in the agency's initial written demand for payment or applicable agreement or instrument (including a post-delinquency payment agreement) unless other satisfactory payment arrangements have been made.


*Delinquent Commerce debt* means a delinquent debt owed to a Commerce entity.


*Disposable pay* has the same meaning as that term is defined in 5 CFR 550.1103.


*Employee or Federal employee* means a current employee of the Commerce Department or other Federal agency, including a current member of the uniformed services, including the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, Coast Guard, Commissioned Corps of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, and Commissioned Corps of the Public Health Service, including the National Guard and the reserve forces of the uniformed services.


*FCCS* means the Federal Claims Collection Standards, which were jointly published by the Departments of the Treasury and Justice and codified at 31 CFR parts 900-904.


*Payment agency or Federal payment agency* means any Federal agency that transmits payment requests in the form of certified payment vouchers, or other similar forms, to a disbursing official for disbursement. The payment agency may be the agency that employs the debtor. In some cases, the Commerce Department may be both the creditor agency and payment agency.


*Person* means an individual, corporation, partnership, association, organization, State or local government or any other type of entity other than a Federal agency.


*Salary offset* means a type of administrative offset to collect a debt under 5 CFR part 5514 by deductions(s) at one or more officially established pay intervals from the current pay account of an employee without his or her consent.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Commerce.


*Tax refund offset* is defined in 31 CFR 285.2(a).




