# § 3570.67   Project selection priorities.

Applications are scored on a priority basis. Points will be distributed as follows:


(a) *Population priorities.* The proposed project is located in a rural community having a population of:


(1) 5,000 or less—30 points;


(2) Between 5,001 and 12,000, inclusive—20 points;


(3) Between 12,001 and 20,000, inclusive—10 points; or


(4) Between 20,001 and 50,000, inclusive, when applicable—5 points.


(b) *Income priorities.* The median household income of the population to be served by the proposed project is below the higher of the poverty line or:


(1) 60 percent of the State nonmetropolitan median household income—30 points;


(2) 70 percent of the State nonmetropolitan median household income—20 points;


(3) 80 percent of the State nonmetropolitan median household income—10 points; or


(4) 90 percent of the State nonmetropolitan median household income—5 points.


(c) *Other priorities.* Points will be assigned for one or more of the following initiatives:


(1) Project is consistent with, and is reflected in, the State Strategic Plan—10 points;


(2) Project is for health care—10 points; or


(3) Project is for public safety—10 points.


(d) *Discretionary.* (1) The State Director may assign up to 15 points to a project in addition to those that may be scored under paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section. These points are to address unforeseen exigencies or emergencies, such as the loss of a community facility due to an accident or natural disaster or the loss of joint financing if Agency funds are not committed in a timely fashion. In addition, the points will be awarded to projects benefiting from the leveraging of funds in order to improve compatibility and coordination between the Agency and other agencies' selection systems and for those projects that are the most cost effective.


(2) In selecting projects for funding at the National Office level, additional points will be awarded based on the priority assigned to the project by the State Office. These points will be awarded in the manner shown below. Only the three highest priority projects for a State will be awarded points. The Administrator may assign up to 30 additional points to account for geographic distribution of funds, emergency conditions caused by economic problems, natural disasters, or leveraging of funds.


