# § 438.600   Statutory basis, basic rule, and applicability.

(a) *Statutory basis.* This subpart is based on the following statutory sections:


(1) Section 1128 of the Act provides for the exclusion of certain individuals and entities from participation in the Medicaid program.


(2) Section 1128J(d) of the Act requires that persons who have received an overpayment under Medicaid report and return the overpayment within 60 days after the date on which the overpayment was identified.


(3) Section 1902(a)(4) of the Act requires that the State plan provide for methods of administration that the Secretary finds necessary for the proper and efficient operation of the plan.


(4) Section 1902(a)(19) of the Act requires that the State plan provide the safeguards necessary to ensure that eligibility is determined and services are provided in a manner consistent with simplicity of administration and the best interests of the beneficiaries.


(5) Section 1902(a)(27) of the Act requires States to enroll persons or institutions that provide services under the State plan.


(6) Section 1902(a)(68) of the Act requires that any entity that receives or makes annual payments under the State plan of at least $5,000,000 must establish certain minimum written policies relating to the Federal False Claims Act.


(7) Section 1902(a)(77) of the Act requires that States comply with provider and supplier screening, oversight, and reporting requirements described in section 1902(kk)(1) of the Act.


(8) Section 1902(a)(80) of the Act prohibits payments for items or services provided under the State plan or under a waiver to any financial institution or entity located outside of the United States.


(9) Section 1902(kk)(7) of the Act requires States to enroll physicians or other professionals that order or refer services under the State plan.


(10) Section 1903(i) of the Act prohibits FFP for amounts expended by MCOs or PCCMs for providers excluded by Medicare, Medicaid, or CHIP, except for emergency services.


(11) Section 1903(m) of the Act establishes conditions for payments to the State for contracts with MCOs.


(12) Section 1932(d)(1) of the Act prohibits MCOs and PCCMs from knowingly having certain types of relationships with individuals and entities debarred under Federal regulations from participating in specified activities, or with affiliates of those individuals.


(b) *Basic rule.* As a condition for receiving payment under a Medicaid managed care program, an MCO, PIHP, PAHP, PCCM or PCCM entity must comply with the requirements in §§ 438.604, 438.606, 438.608 and 438.610, as applicable.


(c) *Applicability.* States will not be held out compliance with the following requirements of this subpart prior to the dates noted below so long as they comply with the corresponding standard(s) in 42 CFR part 438 contained in the CFR, parts 430 to 481, edition revised as of October 1, 2015:


(1) States must comply with §§ 438.602(a), 438.602(c) through (h), 438.604, 438.606, 438.608(a), and 438.608(c) and (d), no later than the rating period for contracts starting on or after July 1, 2017.


(2) States must comply with § 438.602(b) and § 438.608(b) no later than the rating period for contracts beginning on or after July 1, 2018.




