# ยง 219.43   Evidence of child's dependency.

(a) *When the dependency requirement must be met.* Usually the dependency requirement must be met at one of the times shown in part 222 of this chapter.


(b) *Natural or adopted.* If the child is the employee's natural or adopted child, the Board may ask for the following evidence:


(1) A signed statement by someone who knows the facts that confirms that the child is the natural or adopted child.


(2) If the child was adopted by someone else while the employee was alive but the adoption was annulled, the Board may require a certified copy of the annulment decree or other convincing evidence of the annulment.


(3) A signed statement by someone having personal knowledge of the circumstances showing when and where the child lived with the employee and when and why they may have lived apart; and showing what contributions the employee made to the child's support and how the contributions were made.


(c) *Stepchild.* If the child is the employee's stepchild, the Board may ask for the following evidence;


(1) A signed statement by someone having personal knowledge of the circumstances showing when and where the child lived with the employee and when and why they may have lived apart.


(2) A signed statement by someone having personal knowledge of the circumstances showing what contributions the employee made to the child's support, the child's ordinary living costs and the income and support the child received from any other source during the relevant time as required by ยง 222.55 of this chapter.


(d) *Grandchild or stepgrandchild.* If the child is the employee's grandchild or stepgrandchild, the Board will require the evidence described in paragraph (c) of this section. The Board will also require evidence of the employee's death or disability.


