# § 21.184   “Evaluation and planning” status.

(a) *Purpose.* The purpose of *evaluation and planning* status is to identify veterans for whom evaluation and planning services are needed to:


(1) Accomplish an initial evaluation as provided in § 21.50;


(2) Develop an IWRP (Individualized Written Rehabilitation Plan), IEEP (Individualized Extended Evaluation Plan), IILP (Individualized Independent Living Plan) or IEAP (Individualized Employment Assistance Plan); or


(3) Reevaluate:


(i) Findings made in prior initial evaluations, or


(ii) Current or previous individualized rehabilitation plans.


(b) *Assignment to evaluation and planning* status. A veteran's records will be assigned to *evaluation and planning* status for any of the purposes specified in paragraph (a) of this section.


(c) *Termination of evaluation and planning* status. The assignment of the veteran's records to *evaluation and planning* status may be terminated under the following conditions:


(1) *Evaluation and planning completed.* The services necessary to complete evaluation and planning have been provided. These services are:


(i) Completion of an initial evaluation;


(ii) Development of an IWRP (Individualized Written Rehabilitation Plan) or other individual rehabilitation plan in those cases in which eligibility and entitlement to services provided under Chapter 31 are established; or


(iii) Completion of reevaluation of prior findings made in initial evaluation or modification of a rehabilitation plan.


(2) *Evaluation and planning not completed.* The Veteran Readiness and Employment (VR&E) Division shall make every reasonable effort to enable the veteran to complete the evaluation and planning phase of the rehabilitation process. A determination that every reasonable effort by VA has been made, and that little likelihood exists that continued efforts will lead to completion of planning and evaluation, may be made under the following conditions:


(i) The veteran writes VA and requests that his or her case be inactivated;


(ii) The veteran fails to keep scheduled appointments following his or her initial appointment; or


(iii) The veteran otherwise fails to cooperate with VA in the evaluation and planning process. If the veteran fails to cooperate, the provisions of § 21.362 are applicable.



---

[N] [49 FR 40814, Oct. 18, 1984, as amended at 84 FR 193, Jan. 18, 2019; 87 FR 8743, Feb. 16, 2022]




