# § 2.601   Administrator, Foreign Agricultural Service.

(a) *Delegations.* Pursuant to § 2.15(a)(1) and (3), subject to reservations in § 2.15(b), the following delegations of authority are made by the Under Secretary for Trade and Foreign Agricultural Affairs to the Administrator, Foreign Agricultural Service:


(1) Coordinate the carrying out by Department agencies of their functions involving foreign agriculture policies and programs and their operations and activities in foreign areas. Act as liaison on these matters and functions relating to foreign agriculture between the Department of Agriculture and the Department of State, the United States Trade Representative, the Trade Policy Committee, the Agency for International Development and other departments, agencies and committees of the U.S. Government, foreign governments, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, the European Union, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Inter-American Development Bank, the Organization of American States, and other public and private United States and international organizations, and the contracting parties to the World Trade Organization (WTO).




(2) Conduct functions of the Department relating to WTO, the Trade Expansion Act of 1962 (19 U.S.C. 1801 *et seq.*), the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2101 *et seq.*), the Trade Agreements Act of 1979 (19 U.S.C. 2501 *et seq.*), the Omnibus Trade and Competition Act of 1988 (19 U.S.C. 2901 *et seq.*), and other legislation affecting international agricultural trade including the programs designed to reduce foreign tariffs and other trade barriers.


(3) Conduct studies of worldwide production, trade, marketing, prices, consumption, and other factors affecting exports and imports of U.S. agricultural commodities; obtain information on methods used by other countries to move farm commodities in world trade on a competitive basis for use in the development of programs of this Department; provide information to domestic producers, the agricultural trade, the public and other interests; and promote normal commercial markets abroad. This delegation excludes basic and long-range analyses of world conditions and developments affecting supply, demand, and trade in farm products and general economic analyses of the international financial and monetary aspects of agricultural affairs as assigned to the Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics.


(4) Administer Departmental programs concerned with development of foreign markets for agricultural products of the United States except functions relating to export marketing operations under section 32, of the Act of August 23, 1935, as amended (7 U.S.C. 612c), delegated to the Under Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs, and utilization research delegated to the Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics.


(5) Exercise the Department's functions with respect to the International Coffee Agreement or any such future agreement.


(6) Administer functions of the Department relating to import controls including, among others, functions under section 22 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1933, as amended (7 U.S.C. 624), the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (19 U.S.C. 1202), and section 204 of the Agricultural Act of 1956, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1854) but not including those functions reserved to the Secretary under § 2.16(b)(2) and those relating to section 8e of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1933, as amended (7 U.S.C. 608e-1), as assigned to the Under Secretary for Marketing and Regulatory Programs.


(7) Conduct Department activities to carry out the provisions of the Export Administration Act of 1979, as amended (50 U.S.C. Chapter 56).


(8) Exercise the Department's responsibilities in connection with international negotiations of the Grains Trade Convention and in the administration of such Convention.


(9) Administer responsibilities and functions assigned under the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended (50 U.S.C. App. 2061 *et seq.*), and title VI of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5195 *et seq.*), concerning foreign agricultural intelligence and other foreign agricultural matters.


(10) Conduct economic analyses pertaining to the foreign sugar situation.


(11) Exercise the Department's functions with respect to the International Sugar Agreement or any such future agreements.


(12) Exercise the Department's responsibilities with respect to tariff-rate quotes for dairy products under chapter 4 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (19 U.S.C. 1202).


(13) Serve as a focal point for handling quality or weight discrepancy inquiries from foreign buyers of U.S. agricultural commodities to insure that they are investigated and receive a timely response and that reports thereof are made to appropriate parties and government officials in order that corrective action may be taken.


(14) Formulate policies and administer programs and activities authorized by the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978, as amended (7 U.S.C. 5601 *et seq.*).


(15) Formulate policies and administer barter programs under which agricultural commodities are exported.


(16) Perform functions of the Department in connection with the development and implementation of agreements to finance the sale and exportation of agricultural commodities on long-term credit or for foreign currencies under the Food for Peace Act (7 U.S.C. 1691, 1701 *et seq.*).


(17) Coordinate within the Department activities arising under the Food for Peace Act (except as delegated to the Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics in § 2.21(a)(8)), and represent the Department in its relationships in such matters with the Department of State, any interagency committee on the Food for Peace Act, and other departments, agencies, and committees of the Government.


(18)-(19) [Reserved]


(20) Carry out activities relating to the sale, reduction, or cancellation of debt, as authorized by title VI of the Agricultural Trade and Development Act of 1954, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1738 *et seq.*).


(21) Promote cooperation and coordination between 1862, 1890, 1994, and NLGCA Institutions, HSACUs, and cooperating forestry schools and international partner institutions in developing countries by exercising the Secretary's authority in 7 U.S.C. 3292, including coordinating with the Director of the National Institute of Food and Agriculture and Administrator of the Agricultural Research Service to place interns from covered institutions in, or in service to benefit, developing countries.


(22) Allocate the agricultural commodities acquired under price support programs that have been determined by the FSA Administrator to be available for export among the various export programs.


(23) Maintain a worldwide agricultural intelligence and reporting system, including provision for foreign agricultural representation abroad to protect and promote U.S. agricultural interests and to acquire information on demand, competition, marketing, and distribution of U.S. agricultural commodities abroad pursuant to title VI of the Agricultural Act of 1954, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1761-1768).


(24) Plan and carry out programs and activities under the foreign market promotion authority of: The Wheat Research and Promotion Act (7 U.S.C. 1292 note); the Cotton Research and Promotion Act (7 U.S.C. 2101-2118); the Potato Research and Promotion Act (7 U.S.C. 2611-2627); the Egg Research and Consumer Information Act of 1974 (7 U.S.C. 2701-2718); the Beef Research and Information Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 2901-2911); the Wheat and Wheat Foods Research and Nutrition Education Act (7 U.S.C. 3401-3417); the Floral Research and Consumer Information Act of 1981 (7 U.S.C. 4301-4319); subtitle B of title I of the Dairy and Tobacco Adjustment Act of 1983 (7 U.S.C. 4501-4514); the Honey Research, Promotion, and Consumer Information Act of 1984, as amended (7 U.S.C. 4601-4613); the Pork Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Act of 1985 (7 U.S.C. 4801-4819); the Watermelon Research and Promotion Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 4901-4916); the Pecan Promotion and Research Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6001-6013); the Mushroom Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6101-6112); the Lime Research, Promotion, and Consumer Information Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6201-6212); the Soybean Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6301-6311); the Fluid Milk Promotion Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6401-6417); the Fresh Cut Flowers and Fresh Cut Greens Promotion and Consumer Information Act (7 U.S.C. 6801-6814); the Sheep Promotion, Research, and Information Act of 1994 (7 U.S.C. 7101-7111); the Commodity Promotion, Research, and Information Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 7411-7425); the Canola and Rapeseed Research, Promotion, and Consumer Information Act (7 U.S.C. 7441-7452); the National Kiwifruit Research, Promotion, and Consumer Information Act (7 U.S.C. 7461-7473); and, the Popcorn Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Act (7 U.S.C. 7481-7491). This authority includes determining the programs and activities to be undertaken and assuring that they are coordinated with the overall departmental programs to develop foreign markets for U.S. agricultural products.


(25) Establish and administer regulations relating to foreign travel by employees of the Department. Regulations will include, but not be limited to, obtaining and controlling passports, obtaining visas, coordinating Department of State medical clearances and imposing requirements for itineraries and contacting the Foreign Agricultural Affairs Officers upon arrival in the Officers' country(ies) of responsibility.


(26) Administer the Foreign Service personnel system for the Department in accordance with 22 U.S.C. 3922, except as otherwise delegated in § 2.80(a)(1), but including authority to represent the Department of Agriculture in all interagency consultations and negotiations with the other foreign affairs agencies with respect to joint regulations and authority to approve joint regulations issued by the Department of State relating to the administration of the Foreign Service.


(27) Establish and maintain U.S. Agricultural Trade Offices to develop, maintain and expand international markets for U.S. agricultural commodities in accordance with title IV of Public Law No. 95-501 (7 U.S.C. 1765a-g).


(28) Administer the programs under section 416(b) of the Agricultural Act of 1949, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1431(b)), relating to the foreign donation of CCC stocks of agricultural commodities, except as otherwise delegated in § 2.42(a)(43).


(29)-(30) [Reserved]


(31) Administer programs under the Food for Progress Act of 1985 (7 U.S.C. 1736o), except as otherwise delegated in § 2.42(a)(43).


(32) Serve as Department adviser on policies, organizational arrangements, budgets, and actions to accomplish international scientific and technical cooperation in food and agriculture.


(33) Administer and direct the Department's programs in international development, technical assistance, and training carried out under the Foreign Assistance Act, as amended, as requested under such act (22 U.S.C. 2151 *et seq.*).


(34) Administer and coordinate assigned Departmental programs in international research and scientific and technical cooperation with other governmental agencies, land grant universities, international organizations, international agricultural research centers, and other organizations, institutions, or individuals (7 U.S.C. 1624, 3291).


(35) Direct and coordinate the Department's participation in scientific and technical matters and exchange agreements between the United States and other countries.


(36) Direct and coordinate the Department's work with international organizations and interagency committees concerned with food and agricultural development programs (7 U.S.C. 2201 and 2202).


(37) Coordinate policy formulation for USDA international science and technology programs concerning international agricultural research centers, international organizations, and international agricultural research and extension activities (7 U.S.C. 3291).


(38) Disseminate, upon request, information on subjects connected with agriculture which has been acquired by USDA agencies that may be useful to the U.S. private sector in expanding foreign markets and investment opportunities through the operation of a Department information center, pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 2201.


(39) Enter into contracts, grants, cooperative agreements, and cost reimbursable agreements relating to agricultural research, extension, or teaching activities (7 U.S.C. 3318, 3319a).


(40) Determine amounts reimbursable for indirect costs under international agricultural programs and agreements (7 U.S.C. 3319).


(41) Administer the Cochran Fellowship Program (7 U.S.C. 3293).


(42) Determine quantity trigger levels and impose additional duties under the special safeguard measures in accordance with U.S. note 2 to subchapter IV of chapter 99 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (19 U.S.C. 1202).


(43) Implement provisions of the Trade Act of 1974 regarding adjustment assistance for farmers. (19 U.S.C. 2401-2401g).


(44) Implement section 3107 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7 U.S.C. 1736o-1).


(45) Support remote sensing activities of the Department and research with satellite imagery including:


(i) Providing liaison with U.S. space programs;


(ii) Providing administrative management of the USDA Remote Sensing Archive and the transfer of satellite imagery to all USDA agencies;


(iii) Coordinating all agency satellite imagery data needs; and


(iv) Arranging for acquisition, and preparation of imagery for use to the extent of existing capabilities.


(46) Administer the International Agricultural Education Fellowship Program (7 U.S.C. 3295).


(47) Implement section 3206 of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 1726c) regarding local and regional food aid procurement projects.


(48) Administer the Borlaug International Agricultural Science and Technology Fellowship Program (7 U.S.C. 3319j).


(49) Compile and make available information relating to the improvement of international food security, and provide technical assistance for the improvement of international food security to Federal, State, or local agencies; agencies or instrumentalities of the government of foreign country; domestic or international organizations; or intergovernmental organizations (7 U.S.C. 1736dd).


(50) Administer the following provisions of the Agricultural Act of 2014, Public Law 113-79:


(i) Section 12314 relating to the Pima Agriculture Cotton Trust Fund (7 U.S.C. 2101 note), in coordination with the Administrator, Farm Service Agency.


(ii) Section 12315 relating to the Agriculture Wool Apparel Manufacturers Trust Fund (7 U.S.C. 7101 note), in coordination with the Administrator, Farm Service Agency.


(51) In consultation with the Tribal Advisory Committee and the Director of the Office of Tribal Relations, and in coordination with the Secretaries of Commerce, State, Interior, and the heads of any other relevant Federal agencies, implement section 3312 of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018 (7 U.S.C. 5608) to support greater inclusion of Tribal agricultural food products in Federal trade activities.


(b) [Reserved]



---

[N] [83 FR 22188, May 14, 2018, as amended at 85 FR 65524, Oct. 15, 2020; 87 FR 44272, July 26, 2022]




