# § 1.49   Denomination of customer funds and location of depositories.

(a) *Definitions.* For purposes of this section: 


(1) *Money center country.* This term means Canada, France, Italy, Germany, Japan, and the United Kingdom. 


(2) *Money center currency.* This term means the currency of any money center country and the Euro. 


(b) *Permissible denominations of obligations.* (1) Subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this section, a futures commission merchant's obligations to a customer shall be denominated: 


(i) In the United States dollar; 


(ii) In a currency in which funds were deposited by the customer or were converted at the request of the customer, to the extent of such deposits and conversions; or 


(iii) In a currency in which funds have accrued to the customer as a result of trading conducted on a designated contract market, to the extent of such accruals. 


(2)(i) A futures commission merchant shall prepare and maintain a written record of each transaction converting customer funds from one currency to another. 


(ii) A written record prepared under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section must include the date the transaction was executed, the currencies converted, the amount converted, and the resulting amount. 


(iii) The information required under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section must be provided to the customer upon the customer's request. 


(c) *Permissible locations of depositories.* (1) Unless a customer provides instructions to the contrary, a futures commission merchant or a derivatives clearing organization may hold customer funds: 


(i) In the United States; 


(ii) In a money center country; or 


(iii) In the country of origin of the currency. 


(2) A futures commission merchant or derivatives clearing organization may hold customer funds outside the United States, in a jurisdiction that is not a money center country, or the country of origin of the currency only to the extent authorized by the customer, *provided,* that the futures commission merchant or derivatives clearing organization must make and maintain a written record of such authorization. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall a futures commission merchant or a derivatives clearing organization hold customer funds in a restricted country subject to sanctions by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Department of Treasury. 


(d) *Qualifications for depositories.* (1) To hold customer funds required to be segregated pursuant to the Act and §§ 1.20 through 1.30, 1.32 and 1.36, a depository must provide the depositing futures commission merchant or derivatives clearing organization with the appropriate written acknowledgment as required under §§ 1.20 and 1.26. 


(2) A depository, if located in the United States, must be: 


(i) A bank or trust company; 


(ii) A futures commission merchant registered as such with the Commission; or 


(iii) A derivatives clearing organization. 


(3) A depository, if located outside the United States, must be:


(i) A bank or trust company that has in excess of $1 billion of regulatory capital;


(ii) A futures commission merchant that is registered as such with the Commission; or


(iii) A derivatives clearing organization. 


(e) *Segregation requirements.* (1) Each futures commission merchant and each derivatives clearing organization must, as of the close of each business day, hold in segregated accounts on behalf of commodity or option customers: 


(i) Sufficient United States dollars, held in the United States, to meet all United States dollar obligations; and 


(ii) Sufficient funds in each other currency to meet obligations in such currency. 


(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section, assets denominated in one currency may be held to meet obligations denominated in another currency as follows: 


(i) United States dollars may be held in the United States or in money center countries to meet obligations denominated in any other currency; and 


(ii) Funds in money center currencies may be held in the United States or in money center countries to meet obligations denominated in currencies other than the United States dollar. 


(3) Each futures commission merchant and each derivatives clearing organization shall make and maintain records sufficient to demonstrate compliance with this paragraph (e).



---

[N] [68 FR 5551, Feb. 4, 2003, as amended at 76 FR 44264, July 25, 2011; 77 FR 66330, Nov. 2, 2012]




