# § 622.280   Annual catch limits (ACLs) and accountability measures (AMs).

(a) *Atlantic dolphin*—(1) *Commercial sector.* (i) If commercial landings for Atlantic dolphin, as estimated by the SRD, reach or are projected to reach the commercial ACL of 1,719,953 lb (780,158 kg), round weight, the AA will file a notification with the Office of the Federal Register to close the commercial sector for the remainder of the fishing year. On and after the effective date of such a notification, all sale or purchase of Atlantic dolphin is prohibited and harvest or possession of Atlantic dolphin in or from the Atlantic EEZ is limited to the bag and possession limits. These bag and possession limits apply in the Atlantic on board a vessel for which a valid Federal commercial or charter vessel/headboat permit for Atlantic dolphin and wahoo has been issued, without regard to where such species were harvested, *i.e.,* in state or Federal waters.


(ii) In addition to the measures specified in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, if the combined Atlantic dolphin commercial and recreational landings exceed the combined commercial and recreational ACLs specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (a)(2)(i) of this section, and Atlantic dolphin are overfished, based on the most recent Status of U.S. Fisheries Report to Congress, the AA will file a notification with the Office of the Federal Register, at or near the beginning of the following fishing year, to reduce the commercial ACL for that following year by the amount of the commercial overage in the prior fishing year.


(2) *Recreational sector.* If the total ACL specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section is exceeded in a fishing year, then during the following fishing year, the AA will file a notification with the Office of the Federal Register to reduce the length of the recreational fishing season by the amount necessary to ensure that the recreational ACL is not exceeded during the fishing year following the total ACL overage. However, the recreational fishing season will not be reduced in the following fishing year if NMFS determines, based on the best scientific information available, that the reduction in the recreational fishing season is unnecessary. The recreational ACL is 22,850,811 lb (10,364,954 kg), round weight.


(3) *Total ACL.* The total ACL, commercial and recreation ACLs combined, for Atlantic dolphin, is 24,570,764 lb (11,145,111 kg), round weight.


(b) *Atlantic wahoo*—(1) *Commercial sector.* (i) If commercial landings for Atlantic wahoo, as estimated by the SRD, reach or are projected to reach the commercial ACL of 70,690 lb (32,064 kg), round weight, the AA will file a notification with the Office of the Federal Register to close the commercial sector for the remainder of the fishing year. On and after the effective date of such a notification, all sale or purchase of Atlantic wahoo is prohibited and harvest or possession of Atlantic wahoo in or from the Atlantic EEZ is limited to the bag and possession limits. These bag and possession limits apply in the Atlantic on board a vessel for which a valid Federal commercial or charter vessel/headboat permit for Atlantic dolphin and wahoo has been issued, without regard to where such species were harvested, *i.e.,* in state or Federal waters.


(ii) In addition to the measures specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, if the combined Atlantic wahoo commercial and recreational landings exceed the combined commercial and recreational ACLs specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (b)(2)(i) of this section, and Atlantic wahoo are overfished, based on the most recent Status of U.S. Fisheries Report to Congress, the AA will file a notification with the Office of the Federal Register, at or near the beginning of the following fishing year, to reduce the commercial ACL for that following year by the amount of the commercial overage in the prior fishing year.


(2) *Recreational sector.* As described in the FMP, if average annual recreational landings, when determined using 3-year geometric mean, exceed the recreational ACL of 2,814,613 lb (1,276,687 kg), round weight, then in the following fishing year, the AA will file a notification with the Office of the Federal Register to reduce the length of the recreational fishing season by the amount necessary to ensure that the recreational ACL is not exceeded during the fishing year following the recreational ACL overage determination. However, the length of the recreational fishing season will not be reduced in the following fishing year if NMFS determines, based on the best scientific information available, that the reduction in the recreational fishing season is unnecessary.



---

[N] [79 FR 32879, June 9, 2014, as amended at 81 FR 3746, Jan. 22, 2016; 87 FR 19019, Apr. 1, 2022]










