# ยง 80.1   Definitions.

The following definitions apply to this part: 


*Administrator.* The Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, or any person authorized to act for the Administrator. 


*Animal identification number (AIN).* A numbering system for the official identification of individual animals in the United States providing a nationally unique identification number for each animal. The AIN contains 15 digits, with the first 3 being the country code (840 for the United States), the alpha characters USA, or the numeric code assigned to the manufacturer of the identification device by the International Committee on Animal Recording. The AIN beginning with the 840 prefix may be used only on animals born in the United States.


*APHIS.* The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the United States Department of Agriculture. 


*APHIS representative.* An individual employed by APHIS who is authorized to perform the function involved. 


*Approved livestock facility.* A stockyard, livestock market, buying station, concentration point, or any other premises that has been approved under ยง 71.20 of this chapter. 


*Area veterinarian in charge.* An APHIS veterinarian authorized by the Administrator to supervise and manage the animal health work of APHIS in a specified area of the United States. 


*Interstate.* From one State into or through any other State. 


*Johne's disease.* An infectious and communicable disease that primarily affects cattle, sheep, goats, and other domestic, exotic, and wild ruminants, also known as paratuberculosis, caused by *Mycobacterium paratuberculosis.*

*Moved.* Shipped, transported, delivered, or received for movement, or otherwise aided, induced, or caused to be moved. 


*Official eartag.* An identification tag providing unique identification for individual animals. An official eartag which contains or displays an AIN with an 840 prefix must bear the U.S. shield. The design, size, shape, color, and other characteristics of the official eartag will depend on the needs of the users, subject to the approval of the Administrator. The official eartag must be tamper-resistant and have a high retention rate in the animal. Official eartags must adhere to one of the following numbering systems:


(1) National Uniform Eartagging System.


(2) Animal identification number (AIN).


(3) Premises-based number system. The premises-based number system combines an official premises identification number (PIN), as defined in this section, with a producer's livestock production numbering system to provide a unique identification number. The PIN and the production number must both appear on the official tag.


(4) Any other numbering system approved by the Administrator for the identification of animals in commerce.


*Official Johne's disease test.* An organism detection test approved by the Administrator and conducted in a laboratory approved by the Administrator. 
1

*Owner-shipper statement.* A statement signed by the owner or shipper of animals, which states: The number of animals to be moved, the official eartag number of each animal, the species of the animals, points of origin and destination, the consignor and consignee, a statement that the animals are positive to an official Johne's disease test, and any additional information required by this part. 


*Premises identification number (PIN).* A nationally unique number assigned by a State, Tribal, and/or Federal animal health authority to a premises that is, in the judgment of the State, Tribal, and/or Federal animal health authority, a geographically distinct location from other premises. The premises identification number is associated with an address, geospatial coordinates, and/or other location descriptors which provide a verifiably unique location. The premises identification number may be used in conjunction with a producer's own livestock production numbering system to provide a unique identification number for an animal. The premises identification number may consist of:


(1) The State's two-letter postal abbreviation followed by the premises' assigned number; or


(2) A seven-character alphanumeric code, with the right-most character being a check digit. The check digit number is based upon the ISO 7064 Mod 36/37 check digit algorithm.


*Recognized slaughtering establishment.* A slaughtering establishment 
2 operating under the Federal Meat Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 601 *et seq.*) or a State inspected slaughtering establishment. 


*State.* Any of the 50 States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the District of Columbia, and any territories and possessions of the United States. 


*State animal health official.* The State official responsible for livestock and poultry disease control and eradication programs. 


*State representative.* An individual employed in animal health work by a State or political subdivision of a State, and who is authorized by the State or political subdivision to perform tasks required by this part.


*United States.* All of the States.



---

[N] [65 FR 18878, Apr. 10, 2000, as amended at 69 FR 64650, Nov. 8, 2004; 72 FR 39306, July 18, 2007; 73 FR 54062, Sept. 18, 2008; 85 FR 4195, Jan. 24, 2020]




