# § 522.2120   Spectinomycin hydrochloride.

(a) *Specifications.* Each milliliter of solution contains 100 milligrams (mg) spectinomycin hydrochloride (as spectinomycin dihydrochloride pentahydrate).


(b) *Sponsors.* See sponsors in § 510.600(c) of this chapter:


(1) Nos. 016592 and 054771 for use as in paragraph (d)(1) of this section; and


(2) No. 058198 for use as in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.


(c) *Related tolerances.* See § 556.600 of this chapter.


(d) *Conditions of use.* It is administered as follows:


(1) *Turkeys (1- to 3-day-old poults) and chickens (newly hatched chicks)*—(i) *Amounts and indications for use.* (A) Administer 5 mg per poult subcutaneously as an aid in the control of chronic respiratory disease (CRD) associated with *Escherichia coli* in 1- to 3-day-old turkey poults.


(B) Administer 10 mg per poult as a single subcutaneous injection in the nape of the neck as an aid in the control of airsacculitis associated with *Mycoplasma meleagridis* sensitive to spectinomycin in 1- to 3-day-old turkey poults.


(C) Administer 2.5 to 5 mg per chick as an aid in the control of mortality and to lessen severity of infections caused by *M. synoviae, Salmonella typhimurium, S. infantis,* and *E. coli.*

(ii) *Limitations.* For use only in 1- to 3-day-old turkey poults and newly hatched chicks. Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.


(2) *Dogs*—(i) *Amount.* Administer 2.5 to 5.0 mg per pound of body weight by intramuscular injection twice daily. Treatment may be continued for 4 days.


(ii) *Indications for use.* For treatment of infections caused by gram-negative and gram-positive organisms susceptible to spectinomycin.


(iii) *Limitations.* Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.



---

[N] [86 FR 14820, Mar. 19, 2021, as amended at 88 FR 27700, May 3, 2023]




