# § 1710.2   Definitions and rules of construction.

(a) *Definitions.* For the purpose of this part, the following terms shall have the following meanings:


*Administrator* means the Administrator of RUS or his or her designee. 


*Approved load forecast* means a load forecast that RUS has determined is current for RUS purposes and has been approved by RUS pursuant to 7 CFR part 1710, subpart E. 


*APRR* means Average Adjusted Plant Revenue Ratio calculated as a simple average of the adjusted plant revenue ratios for 1978, 1979 and 1980 as follows:


*Area Coverage* means the provision of adequate electric service to the widest practical number of rural users in the borrower's service area during the life of the loan.


*Borrower* means any organization that has an outstanding loan made or guaranteed by RUS for rural electrification, or that is seeking such financing. 


*Bulk Transmission Facilities* means the transmission facilities connecting power supply facilities to the subtransmission facilities, including both the high and low voltage sides of the transformer used to connect to the subtransmission facilities, as well as related supervisory control and data acquisition systems. 


*Call provision* has the same meaning as “prepayment option”. 


*Consolidation* means the combination of 2 or more borrower or nonborrower organizations, pursuant to state law, into a new successor organization that takes over the assets and assumes the liabilities of those organizations. 


*Consumer* means a retail customer of electricity, as reported on RUS Form 7, Part R, Lines 1-7. 


*Cybersecurity and grid security improvements* means:


(i) Investment in the development, expansion, and modernization of rural utility infrastructure that addresses known and emerging cybersecurity and grid security risks. This definition incorporates both cybersecurity and grid security as one concept. The cybersecurity component of the definition includes measures and investments designed to prevent damage to, otherwise protect, or restore computers and computer systems, industrial control systems/operational technology, electronic communications systems, electronic communications services, wire, and all other forms electronic communication including information contained therein. Rural utilities often utilize cybersecurity measures and investments to ensure service availability, system integrity, user authentication, confidentiality, and nonrepudiation, related to the services.


(ii) The grid security component of this definition, includes measures and investments made to protect a utility's infrastructure reliability and resiliency against both natural impacts and man-made physical attacks or intrusions by individuals or groups intent on damaging, destroying, disrupting, or removing components of utility infrastructure or threatening to damage utility infrastructure. Measures considered for RUS financing include, but are not limited to, fire prevention, physical barriers, remote sensing equipment, monitoring physical assets, security cameras, security vehicles, information and operational technology cybersecurity measures, control systems cybersecurity monitoring technologies, fire prevention devices and sensors and other investments which serve the purpose of protecting assets and maintaining the reliability of rural utility systems.


*Demand side management (DSM)* means the deliberate planning and/or implementation of activities to influence Consumer use of electricity provided by a distribution borrower to produce beneficial modifications to the system load profile. Beneficial modifications to the system load profile ordinarily improve load factor or otherwise help in utilizing electric system resources to best advantage consistent with acceptable standards of service and lowest system cost. Load profile modifications are characterized as peak clipping, valley filling, load shifting, strategic conservation, strategic load growth, and flexible load profile. (See, for example, publications of the Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI), 3412 Hillview Avenue, Palo Alto, CA 94304, especially “Demand-Side Management Glossary” EPRI TR-101158, Project 1940-25, Final Report, October 1992.) DSM includes energy conservation programs.


*Distribution Borrower* means a borrower that sells or intends to sell electric power and energy at retail in rural areas. 


*Distribution Facilities* means all electrical lines and related facilities beginning at the consumer's meter base, and continuing back to and including the distribution substation. 


*Distributed generation* is the generation of electricity by a sufficiently small electric generating system as to allow interconnection of the electric generating system near the point of service at distribution voltages including points on the customer side of the meter. A distributed generating system may be operated in parallel or independent of the electric power system. A distributed generating system may be fueled by any source, including but not limited to renewable energy sources. A distributed generation project may include one or more distributed generation systems. 


*DSC* means Debt Service Coverage of the borrower calculated as:


*DSM activities* means activities of the type referred to in § 1710.354(f).


*DSM plan* means a plan that describes the implementation at the distribution level of the DSM activities identified in the integrated resource plan as having positive net benefits. See § 1710.357.


*Electric system* means all of the borrower's interests in all electric production, transmission, distribution, conservation, load management, general plant and other related facilities, equipment or property and in any mine, well, pipeline, plant, structure or other facility for the development, production, manufacture, storage, fabrication or processing of fossil, nuclear, or other fuel or in any facility or rights with respect to the supply of water, in each case for use, in whole or in major part, in any of the borrower's generating plants, including any interest or participation of the borrower in any such facilities or any rights to the output or capacity thereof, together with all lands, easements, rights-of-way, other works, property, structures, contract rights and other tangible and intangible assets of the borrower in each case used or useful in such electric system. 


*Eligible Energy Efficiency and Conservation Programs (Eligible EE Program)* means an energy efficiency and conservation program that meets the requirements of subpart H of this part.


*Equity* means total margins and equities, which equals Part C, Line 33 of RUS Form 7 (distribution borrowers) or Section B, Line 34 of RUS Form 12a (power supply borrowers). 


*Final maturity* means the final date on which all outstanding principal and accrued interest on an electric loan is due and payable. 


*Five percent hardship rate* means an interest rate of 5 percent applicable to a hardship rate loan. 


*Fund advance period* means the period of time during which the Government may advance loan funds to the borrower. See 7 CFR 1714.56. 


*Generation Facilities* means the generating plant and related facilities, including the building containing the plant, all fuel handling facilities, and the stepup substation used to convert the generator voltage to transmission voltage, as well as related energy management (dispatching) systems.


*Hardship rate loan* means a loan made at the 5 percent hardship rate pursuant to 7 CFR 1714.8. 


*Insured Loan* means a loan made pursuant to Section 305 of the RE Act, and may include a direct loan made under Section 4 of the RE Act.


*Integrated Resources Plan (IRP)* means a plan resulting from the planning and selection process for new energy resources that evaluates the benefits and costs of the full range of alternatives, including new generating capacity, power purchases, DSM programs, system operating efficiency, and renewable energy systems.


*Interest rate cap* means a maximum interest rate of 7 percent applicable to certain municipal rate loans as set forth in § 1710.7. 


*Interest rate term* means a period of time selected by the borrower for the purpose of determining the interest rate on an advance of funds. See 7 CFR 1714.6. 


*Load forecast* means the thorough study of a borrower's electric loads and the factors that affect those loads in order to determine, as accurately as practicable, the borrower's future requirements for energy and capacity. 


*Loan* means any loan made or guaranteed by RUS.


*Loan Contract* means the agreement, as amended, supplemented, or restated from time to time, between a borrower and RUS providing for loans made or guaranteed pursuant to the RE Act.


*Loan Feasibility* means that the borrower has the capability of repaying the loan in full as scheduled, in accordance with the terms of the mortgage, note, and loan contract.


*Loan Guarantee* means a loan guarantee made by RUS pursuant to the RE Act.


*Loan period* means the period of time during which the facilities will be constructed not to exceed the time identified in the Loan note, as approved. 


*MDSC* means Modified Debt Service Coverage of the electric system calculated as:


*Merger* means the combining, pursuant to state law, of borrower or nonborrower organizations into an existing survivor organization that takes over the assets and assumes the liabilities of the merged organizations.


*Mortgage* means any and all instruments creating a lien on or security interest in the borrower's assets in connection with loans or guarantees under the RE Act.


*MTIER* means Modified Times Interest Earned Ratio of the electric system calculated as:


*Municipal rate loan* means a loan made at a municipal interest rate pursuant to 7 CFR 1714.5. 


*ODSC* means Operating Debt Service Coverage of the electric system calculated as:


*Off-grid renewable energy system* is a renewable energy system not interconnected to an area electric power system (EPS). An off-grid renewable energy system in areas without access to an area EPS may include energy consuming devices and electric wiring to provide for more effective or more efficient use of the electricity produced by the system. 


*On-grid renewable energy system* is a renewable energy system interconnected to an area electric power system (EPS) through a normally open or normally closed device. It can be interconnected to the EPS on either side of a customer's meter.


*Ordinary Replacement* means replacing one or more units of plant, called “retirement units”, with similar units when made necessary by normal wear and tear, damage beyond repair, or obsolescence of the facilities.


*OTIER* means Operating Times Interest Earned Ratio of the electric system calculated as:


*Power requirements study* (PRS) has the same meaning as load forecast.


*Power Supply Borrower* means a borrower that sells or intends to sell electric power at wholesale to distribution or power supply borrowers pursuant to RUS wholesale power contracts.


*Prepayment option* means a provision included in the loan documents to allow the borrower to prepay all or a portion of an advance on a municipal rate loan on a date other than a rollover maturity date. See 7 CFR 1714.9. 


*PRR* means Plant Revenue Ratio calculated as: 


*RE Act* means the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, as amended (7 U.S.C. 901 *et seq.).*

*RE Act beneficiary* means a person, business, or other entity that is located in a rural area. 


*REA* means the Rural Electrification Administration formerly an agency of the United States Department of Agriculture and predecessor agency to RUS with respect to administering certain electric and telephone loan programs. 


*Renewable energy system* is an energy conversion system fueled from any of the following energy sources: Solar, wind, hydropower, biomass, or geothermal. Any of these energy sources may be converted to heat or electricity, provided heat is a by-product of electricity generation. Non-renewable energy sources may be used by a renewable energy system for incidental and necessary means such as, but not limited to, system start up, flame stabilization, continuity of system processes, or reduction of the moisture content of renewable fuels. Energy from bio-mass may be converted from any organic matter available on a renewable basis, including dedicated energy crops and trees, agricultural food and feed crops, agricultural crop wastes and residues, wood wastes and residues, aquatic plants, animal wastes, municipal wastes, and other waste materials.


*Retirement Unit* means a substantial unit of property, which when retired, with or without being replaced, is accounted for by removing its book cost from the plant account.


*Rollover maturity date* means the last day of an interest rate term. 


*Rural area* means—


(i) Any area of the United States, its territories and insular possessions (including any area within the Federated States of Micronesia, the Marshall Islands, and the Republic of Palau) other than a city, town, or unincorporated area that has a population of greater than 20,000 inhabitants;


(ii) Any area within a service area of a borrower for which a borrower has an outstanding loan as of June 18, 2008, made under titles I through V of the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 901-950bb). For initial loans to a borrower made after June 18, 2008, the “rural” character of an area is determined at the time of the initial loan to furnish or improve service in the area; and


(iii) Which excludes certain populations pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 1991(a)(13)(H) and (I). 


*RUS* means the Rural Utilities Service, an agency of the United States Department of Agriculture established pursuant to Section 232 of the Federal Crop Insurance Reform and Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (Pub. L. 103-354, 108 Stat. 3178), successor to REA with respect to administering certain electric and telephone programs. See 7 CFR 1700.1.


*Subtransmission Facilities* means the transmission facilities that connect the high voltage side of the distribution substation to the low voltage side of the bulk transmission or generating facilities, as well as related supervisory control and data acquisition facilities.


*System Improvement* means the change or addition to electric plant facilities to improve the quality of electric service or to increase the quantity of electric power available to RE Act beneficiaries.


*TIER* means Times Interest Earned Ratio of the borrower calculated as:


*Total Assets* means Part C, Line 26 of RUS Form 7 (distribution borrowers) or Section B, Line 27 of RUS Form 12a (power supply borrowers). 


*Total Utility Plant* means Part C, Line 3 of RUS Form 7 (distribution borrowers) or Section B, Line 27 of RUS Form 12a (power supply borrowers). 


*Transmission Facilities* means all electrical lines and related facilities, including certain substations, used to connect the distribution facilities to generation facilities. They include bulk transmission and subtransmission facilities.


*Urban area* is defined as any area not considered a rural area per the definition contained in this subpart. 


*Urbanized area* means an urbanized area as defined by the Bureau of the Census in notices published periodically in the _Federal Register._ Generally an urbanized area is characterized as an area that comprises a place and the adjacent densely settled territory that together have a minimum population of 50,000 people. 


(b) *Rules of Construction.* Unless the context otherwise indicates, “includes” and “including” are not limiting, and “or” is not exclusive. The terms defined in paragraph (a) of this part include the plural as well as the singular, and the singular as well as the plural.



---

[N] [57 FR 1053, Jan. 9, 1992]


