# § 74.18   Withdrawal.

(a) *Withdrawal through administrative amendment.* An opt-in source may request to withdraw from the Acid Rain Program by submitting an administrative amendment under § 72.83 of this chapter; provided that the amendment will be treated as received by the permitting authority upon issuance of the notification of the acceptance of the request to withdraw under paragraph (f)(1) of this section.


(b) *Requesting withdrawal.* To withdraw from the Acid Rain Program, the designated representative of an opt-in source shall submit to the Administrator and the permitting authority a request to withdraw effective January 1 of the year after the year in which the submission is made. The submission shall be made no later than December 1 of the calendar year preceding the effective date of withdrawal.


(c) *Conditions for withdrawal.* In order for an opt-in source to withdraw, the following conditions must be met:


(1) By no later than January 30 of the first calendar year in which the withdrawal is to be effective, the designated representative must submit to the Administrator an annual compliance certification report pursuant to § 74.43.


(2) If the opt-in source has excess emissions in the calendar year before the year for which the withdrawal is to be in effect, the designated representative must submit an offset plan for excess emissions, pursuant to part 77 of this chapter, that provides for immediate deduction of allowances.


(d) *Administrator's action on withdrawal.* After the opt-in source meets the requirements for withdrawal under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the Administrator will deduct allowances required to be deducted under § 73.35 of this chapter and part 77 of this chapter and allowances equal in number to and with the same or earlier compliance use date as those allocated under § 74.40 for the first year for which the withdrawal is to be effective and all subsequent years. 


(e) *Opt-in source's prior violations.* An opt-in source that withdraws from the Acid Rain Program shall comply with all requirements under the Acid Rain Program concerning all years for which the opt-in source was an affected unit, even if such requirements arise, or must be complied with after the withdrawal takes effect.


(f) *Notification.* (1) After the requirements for withdrawal under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section are met and after the Administrator's action on withdrawal under paragraph (d) of this section is complete, the Administrator will issue a notification to the permitting authority and the designated representative of the opt-in source of the acceptance of the opt-in source's request to withdraw.


(2) If the requirements for withdrawal under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section are not met or the Administrator's action under paragraph (d) of this section cannot be completed, the Administrator will issue a notification to the permitting authority and the designated representative of the opt-in source that the opt-in source's request to withdraw is denied. If the opt-in source's request to withdraw is denied, the opt-in source shall remain in the Opt-in Program and shall remain subject to the requirements for opt-in sources contained in this part.


(g) *Permit amendment.* (1) After the Administrator issues a notification under paragraph (f)(1) of this section that the requirements for withdrawal have been met (including the deduction of the full amount of allowances as required under paragraph (d) of this section), the permitting authority shall amend, in accordance with §§ 72.80 and 72.83 (administrative amendment) of this chapter, the opt-in source's Acid Rain permit to terminate the opt-in permit, not later than 60 days from the issuance of the notification under paragraph (f) of this section.


(2) The termination of the opt-in permit under paragraph (g)(1) of this section will be effective on January 1 of the year for which the withdrawal is requested. An opt-in source shall continue to be an affected unit until the effective date of the termination.


(h) *Reapplication upon failure to meet conditions of withdrawal.* If the Administrator denies the opt-in source's request to withdraw, the designated representative may submit another request to withdraw in accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.


(i) *Ability to return to the Acid Rain Program.* Once a combustion or process source withdraws from the Acid Rain Program and its opt-in permit is terminated, a new opt-in permit application for the combustion or process source may not be submitted prior to the date that is four years after the date on which the opt-in permit became effective.



---

[N] [60 FR 17115, Apr. 4, 1995, as amended at 63 FR 18841, Apr. 16, 1998; 70 FR 25336, May 12, 2005]




