# ยง 73.3110   Chlorophyllin-copper complex, oil soluble.

(a) *Identity.* The color additve is chlorophyllin-copper complex, oil soluble. The chlorophyllin is obtained by extraction from a mixture of fescue and rye grasses. The chlorophyll is acid-treated to remove chelated magnesium which is replaced with hydrogen, which is turn is replaced with copper. This mixture is diluted to a 5 percent concentration with a mixture of palm oil, peanut oil, and hydrogenated peanut oil.


(b) *Specifications.* The color additive chlorophyllin-copper complex, oil soluble (5 percent in palm oil, peanut oil, and hydrogenated peanut oil), shall conform to the following specifications and shall be free from impurities other than those named to the extent that such other impurities may be avoided by current good manufacturing practice:


(c) *Uses and restrictions.* (1) The color additive chlorophyllin-copper complex, oil soluble (5 percent in palm oil, peanut oil, and hydrogenated peanut oil), may be safely used to color polymethylmethacrylate bone cement. Chlorophyllin-copper complex may be used at levels that do not exceed 0.003 percent by weight of the bone cement.


(2) Authorization for this use shall not be construed as waiving any of the requirements of sections 510(k), 515, and 520(g) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act with respect to the polymethylmethacrylate bone cement in which chlorophyllin-copper complex, oil soluble, is used.


(d) *Labeling.* The label of the color additive shall conform to the requirements of ยง 70.25 of this chapter.


(e) *Exemption from certification.* Certification of this color additive is not necessary for the protection of the public health, and therefore the color additive is exempt from the certification requirements of section 721(c) of the act.



---

[N] [48 FR 56370, Dec. 21, 1983]




