# ยง 60.281a   Definitions.

As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein must have the same meaning given them in the Act and in subpart A.


*Affirmative defense* means, in the context of an enforcement proceeding, a response or defense put forward by a defendant, regarding which the defendant has the burden of proof, and the merits of which are independently and objectively evaluated in a judicial or administrative proceeding.


*Black liquor solids* (BLS) means the dry weight of the solids which enter the recovery furnace in the black liquor.


*Brown stock washer system* means brown stock washers and associated knotters, vacuum pumps, and filtrate tanks used to wash the pulp following the digester system. Diffusion washers are excluded from this definition.


*Closed-vent system* means a system that is not open to the atmosphere and is composed of piping, ductwork, connections, and, if necessary, flow-inducing devices that transport gas or vapor from an emission point to a control device.


*Condensable particulate matter,* for purposes of this subpart, means particulate matter (PM) measured by EPA Method 202 of appendix M of 40 CFR part 51 that is vapor phase at stack conditions, but condenses and/or reacts upon cooling and dilution in the ambient air to form solid or liquid PM immediately after discharge from the stack.


*Condensate stripper system* means a column, and associated condensers, used to strip, with air or steam, total reduced sulfur (TRS) compounds from condensate streams from various processes within a kraft pulp mill.


*Cross recovery furnace* means a furnace used to recover chemicals consisting primarily of sodium and sulfur compounds by burning black liquor which on a quarterly basis contains more than 7 weight percent of the total pulp solids from the neutral sulfite semichemical process and has a green liquor sulfidity of more than 28 percent.


*Digester system* means each continuous digester or each batch digester used for the cooking of wood in white liquor, and associated flash tank(s), blow tank(s), chip steamer(s) including chip bins using live steam, and condenser(s).


*Filterable particulate matter,* for purposes of this subpart, means particulate matter measured by EPA Method 5 of appendix A-3 of this part.


*Green liquor sulfidity* means the sulfidity of the liquor which leaves the smelt dissolving tank.


*High volume, low concentration (HVLC) closed-vent system* means the gas collection and transport system used to convey gases from the brown stock washer system to a control device.


*Kraft pulp mill* means any stationary source which produces pulp from wood by cooking (digesting) wood chips in a water solution of sodium hydroxide and sodium sulfide (white liquor) at high temperature and pressure. Regeneration of the cooking chemicals through a recovery process is also considered part of the kraft pulp mill.


*Lime kiln* means a unit used to calcine lime mud, which consists primarily of calcium carbonate, into quicklime, which is calcium oxide.


*Low volume, high concentration (LVHC) closed-vent system* means the gas collection and transport system used to convey gases from the digester system, condensate stripper system, and multiple-effect evaporator system to a control device.


*Monitoring system malfunction* means a sudden, infrequent, not reasonably preventable failure of the monitoring system to provide valid data. Monitoring system failures that are caused in part by poor maintenance or careless operation are not malfunctions. The owner or operator is required to implement monitoring system repairs in response to monitoring system malfunctions or out-of-control periods, and to return the monitoring system to operation as expeditiously as practicable.


*Multiple-effect evaporator system* means the multiple-effect evaporators and associated condenser(s) and hotwell(s) used to concentrate the spent cooking liquid that is separated from the pulp (black liquor).


*Neutral sulfite semichemical pulping operation* means any operation in which pulp is produced from wood by cooking (digesting) wood chips in a solution of sodium sulfite and sodium bicarbonate, followed by mechanical defibrating (grinding).


*No-load fan amperage* means, for the purposes of this subpart, the amperage pulled by the fan motor when the fan is operating under no-load, specifically the amperage value the motor would use if the fan belt was removed or the coupling to a direct drive fan was disconnected.


*Recovery furnace* means either a straight kraft recovery furnace or a cross recovery furnace, and includes the direct-contact evaporator for a direct-contact furnace.


*Smelt dissolving tank* means a vessel used for dissolving the smelt collected from the recovery furnace.


*Straight kraft recovery furnace* means a furnace used to recover chemicals consisting primarily of sodium and sulfur compounds by burning black liquor which on a quarterly basis contains 7 weight percent or less of the total pulp solids from the neutral sulfite semichemical process or has green liquor sulfidity of 28 percent or less.


*Total reduced sulfur (TRS)* means the sum of the sulfur compounds hydrogen sulfide, methyl mercaptan, dimethyl sulfide, and dimethyl disulfide that are released during the kraft pulping operation and measured by Method 16 of appendix A-6 of this part.



---

[N] [79 FR 18966, Apr. 4, 2014, as amended at 85 FR 70492, Nov. 5, 2020]




