# § 700.701   Definitions.

(a) *Act* means Pub. L. 93-531 (88 Sat. 1712, 25 U.S.C. 640 *et. seq.*) as amended by Pub. L. 96-305 and Pub. L. 100-666.


(b) *New Lands* means the land acquired for the use of relocatees under the authority of Pub. L. 96-305, 25 U.S.C. 640d-10. These lands include the 215,000 acres of lands acquired by the Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation Commission and added to the Navajo Reservation and 150,000 acres of private lands previously owned by the Navajo Nation in fee and taken in trust by the United States pursuant to 25 U.S.C. 640d-10.


(c) *Commissioner* means the Commissioner of The Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation in Flagstaff, Arizona. Reference to approval or other action by the Commissioner will also include approval or other action by another Federal officer under delegated authority from the Commissioner.


(d) *Tribe* means the Navajo Nation.


(e) *Range unit* means a tract of range land designated as a management unit for administration of grazing.


(f) *Range Management Plan* means a land use plan for a specific range unit that will provide for a sustained forage production consistent with soil, watershed, wildlife, and other values.


(g) *Stocking rate* means the authorized stocking rate by range unit as determined by the Commissioner. The stocking rate shall be based on forage production, range utilization, land management applications being applied, and range improvements in place to achieve uniformity of grazing under sustained yield management principles.


(h) *Grazing permit* means a revocable privilege granted in writing limited to entering on and utilizing forage by domestic livestock on a specified tract of land. The term, as used herein, shall include written authorization issued to enable the crossing or trailing of domestic livestock across specified tracts or range.


(i) *Animal unit* (AU) means one adult cow with unweaned calf by her side or equivalent thereof based on comparative forage consumption. Accepted conversion factors are: Sheep and Goats—one ewe, doe, buck, or ram equals 0.25 AU. Horses and Mules—one horse, mule, donkey or burro equals 1.25 AU.


(j) *Sheep unit* means one ewe with lamb at side or a doe goat with kid.


(k) *SUYL* means one sheep unit grazed yearlong.


(l) *HPL* means the area partitioned to the Hopi Tribe pursuant to Pub. L. 93-531 known as the Hopi Partitioned Land.




