# § 429.26   Fluorescent lamp ballasts.

(a) *Sampling plan for selection of units for testing.* (1) The requirements of § 429.11 are applicable to fluorescent lamp ballasts; and


(2) For each basic model of fluorescent lamp ballasts, a sample of sufficient size, not less than four, shall be randomly selected and tested to ensure that—


(i) Any represented value of the energy consumption of a basic model for which consumers would favor lower values shall be greater than or equal to the higher of:


(A) The mean of the sample, where:


Or,


(B) The upper 99 percent confidence limit (UCL) of the true mean divided by 1.01, where:



(ii) Any represented value of the ballast luminous efficiency, power factor, or other measure of the energy efficiency or energy consumption of a basic model for which consumers would favor a higher value must be less than or equal to the lower of:


(A) The mean of the sample, where:


(B) The lower 99 percent confidence limit (LCL) of the true mean divided by 0.99, where:



(iii) The represented value of average total lamp arc power must be equal to the mean of the sample,


(b) *Certification reports.* (1) The requirements of § 429.12 are applicable to fluorescent lamp ballasts; and


(2) Pursuant to § 429.12(b)(13), a certification report must include the following public product-specific information: The ballast luminous efficiency, the average total lamp arc power, the power factor, the number of lamps operated by the ballast, and the type of lamps operated by the ballast (*i.e.,* wattage, base, shape, diameter, and length).


(c) *Rounding requirements.* (1) Round ballast luminous efficiency to the nearest thousandths place.


(2) Round power factor to the nearest hundredths place.


(3) Round average total lamp arc power to the nearest tenth of a watt.



---

[N] [76 FR 12451, Mar. 7, 2011; 76 FR 24769, May 2, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 25600, Apr. 29, 2016; 85 FR 56493, Sept. 14, 2020]




