# § 92.4   Definitions.

As used in this part, the term—


*1991 Standards* means the 1991 ADA Standards for Accessible Design, published at appendix A to 28 CFR part 36 on July 26, 1991, and republished as appendix D to 28 CFR part 36 on September 15, 2010.


*2010 Standards* means 36 CFR part 1191, appendices B and D (2009), in conjunction with 28 CFR 35.151.


*ACA* means the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (Pub. L. 111-148, 124 Stat. 119 (2010) as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (Pub. L. 111-152, 124 Stat. 1029) (codified in scattered sections of U.S.C.)).


*ADA* means the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12101 *et seq.*), as amended.


*Age* means how old a person is, or the number of elapsed years from the date of a person's birth.


*Age Act* means the Age Discrimination Act of 1975 (42 U.S.C. 6101 *et seq.*), as amended.


*Applicant* means a person who applies to participate in a health program or activity.


*Auxiliary aids and services* include, for example:


(1) Qualified interpreters on-site or through video remote interpreting (VRI) services, as defined in 28 CFR 35.104 and 36.104; note takers; real-time computer-aided transcription services; written materials; exchange of written notes; telephone handset amplifiers; assistive listening devices; assistive listening systems; telephones compatible with hearing aids; closed caption decoders; open and closed captioning, including real-time captioning; voice, text, and video-based telecommunications products and systems, including text telephones (TTYs), videophones, and captioned telephones, or equally effective telecommunications devices; videotext displays; accessible information and communication technology (ICT); or other effective methods of making aurally delivered information available to persons who are deaf or hard of hearing;


(2) Qualified readers; taped texts; audio recordings; Braille materials and displays; screen reader software; magnification software; optical readers; secondary auditory programs (SAP); large print materials; accessible information and communication technology; or other effective methods of making visually delivered materials available to persons who are blind or have low vision;


(3) Acquisition or modification of equipment and devices; and


(4) Other similar services and actions.


*Companion* means a family member, friend, or associate of an individual seeking access to a service, program, or activity of a covered entity, who along with such individual, is an appropriate person with whom a covered entity should communicate.


*Covered entity* means:


(1) A recipient of Federal financial assistance;


(2) The Department; and


(3) An entity established under title I of the ACA.


*Department* means the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.


*Director* means the Director of the Office for Civil Rights (OCR) of the Department, or their designee(s).


*Disability* means, with respect to an individual, a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities of such individual; a record of such an impairment; or being regarded as having such an impairment, as defined and construed in the Rehabilitation Act, 29 U.S.C. 705(9)(B), which incorporates the definition of “disability” in the ADA, 42 U.S.C. 12102, as amended and adopted at 28 CFR 35.108.


*Exchange* means the same as “Exchange” defined in 45 CFR 155.20.


*Federal financial assistance,* as used in this part:


(1) Federal financial assistance means any grant, loan, credit, subsidy, contract (other than a procurement contract but including a contract of insurance), or any other arrangement by which the Federal Government, directly or indirectly, provides assistance or otherwise makes assistance available in the form of:


(i) Funds;


(ii) Services of Federal personnel; or


(iii) Real or personal property or any interest in or use of such property, including:


(A) Transfers or leases of such property for less than fair market value or for reduced consideration; and


(B) Proceeds from a subsequent transfer or lease of such property if the Federal share of its fair market value is not returned to the Federal Government.


(2) Federal financial assistance the Department provides or otherwise makes available includes Federal financial assistance that the Department plays a role in providing or administering, including advance payments of the premium tax credit and cost-sharing reduction payments under title I of the ACA, as well as payments, subsidies, or other funds extended by the Department to any entity providing health insurance coverage for payment to or on behalf of a person obtaining health insurance coverage from that entity or extended by the Department directly to such person for payment to any entity providing health insurance coverage.


*Federally-facilitated Exchange* means the same as “Federally-facilitated Exchange” defined in 45 CFR 155.20.


*Health program or activity* means:


(1) Any project, enterprise, venture, or undertaking to:


(i) Provide or administer health-related services, health insurance coverage, or other health-related coverage;


(ii) Provide assistance to persons in obtaining health-related services, health insurance coverage, or other health-related coverage;


(iii) Provide clinical, pharmaceutical, or medical care;


(iv) Engage in health or clinical research; or


(v) Provide health education for health care professionals or others.


(2) All of the operations of any entity principally engaged in the provision or administration of any health projects, enterprises, ventures, or undertakings described in paragraph (1) of this definition, including, but not limited to, a State or local health agency, hospital, health clinic, health insurance issuer, physician's practice, pharmacy, community-based health care provider, nursing facility, residential or community-based treatment facility, or other similar entity or combination thereof. A health program or activity also includes all of the operations of a State Medicaid program, Children's Health Insurance Program, and Basic Health Program.


*Individual with limited English proficiency* means an individual whose primary language for communication is not English and who has a limited ability to read, write, speak, or understand English. An individual with limited English proficiency may be competent in English for certain types of communication (*e.g.,* speaking or understanding), but still be limited English proficient for other purposes (*e.g.,* reading or writing).


*Information and communication technology (ICT)* means information technology and other equipment, systems, technologies, or processes, for which the principal function is the creation, manipulation, storage, display, receipt, or transmission of electronic data and information, as well as any associated content. Examples of ICT include, but are not limited to: computers and peripheral equipment; information kiosks and transaction machines; telecommunications equipment; telehealth interfaces or applications; customer premises equipment; multifunction office machines; software; mobile applications; websites; videos; and electronic documents.


*Language assistance services* may include, but are not limited to:


(1) Oral language assistance, including interpretation in non-English languages provided in-person or remotely by a qualified interpreter for an individual with limited English proficiency, and the use of qualified bilingual or multilingual staff to communicate directly with individuals with limited English proficiency;


(2) Written translation, performed by a qualified translator, of written content in paper or electronic form into or from languages other than English; and


(3) Written notice of availability of language assistance services.


*Machine translation* means automated translation, without the assistance of or review by a qualified human translator, that is text-based and provides instant translations between various languages, sometimes with an option for audio input or output.


*National origin* includes, but is not limited to, a person's, or their ancestors', place of origin (such as country or world region) or a person's manifestation of the physical, cultural, or linguistic characteristics of a national origin group.


*OCR* means the Office for Civil Rights of the Department.


*Patient care decision support tool* means any automated or non-automated tool, mechanism, method, technology, or combination thereof used by a covered entity to support clinical decision-making in its health programs or activities.


*Qualified bilingual/multilingual staff* means a member of a covered entity's workforce who is designated by the covered entity to provide in-language oral language assistance as part of the person's current, assigned job responsibilities and who has demonstrated to the covered entity that they are:


(1) Proficient in speaking and understanding both spoken English and at least one other spoken language, including any necessary specialized vocabulary, terminology and phraseology; and


(2) Able to effectively, accurately, and impartially communicate directly with individuals with limited English proficiency in their primary languages.


*Qualified individual with a disability* means an individual with a disability who, with or without reasonable modifications to rules, policies, or practices, the removal of architectural, communication, or transportation barriers, or the provision of auxiliary aids and services, meets the essential eligibility requirements for the receipt of services or the participation in programs or activities provided by the covered entity.


*Qualified interpreter for an individual with a disability* means an interpreter who, via a video remote interpreting service (VRI) or an on-site appearance:


(1) Has demonstrated proficiency in communicating in, and understanding:


(i) Both English and a non-English language (including American Sign Language, other sign languages); or


(ii) Another communication modality (such as cued-language transliterators or oral transliteration);


(2) Is able to interpret effectively, accurately, and impartially, both receptively and expressively, using any necessary specialized vocabulary or terms without changes, omissions, or additions and while preserving the tone, sentiment, and emotional level of the original statement; and


(3) Adheres to generally accepted interpreter ethics principles including client confidentiality.


(4) Qualified interpreters include, for example, sign language interpreters, oral transliterators, and cued-language transliterators.


*Qualified interpreter for an individual with limited English proficiency* means an interpreter who via a remote interpreting service or an on-site appearance:


(1) Has demonstrated proficiency in speaking and understanding both spoken English and at least one other spoken language (qualified interpreters for relay interpretation must demonstrate proficiency in two non-English spoken languages);


(2) Is able to interpret effectively, accurately, and impartially to and from such language(s) and English (or between two non-English languages for relay interpretation), using any necessary specialized vocabulary or terms without changes, omissions, or additions and while preserving the tone, sentiment, and emotional level of the original oral statement; and


(3) Adheres to generally accepted interpreter ethics principles, including client confidentiality.


*Qualified reader* means a person who is able to read effectively, accurately, and impartially using any necessary specialized vocabulary.


*Qualified translator* means a translator who:


(1) Has demonstrated proficiency in writing and understanding both written English and at least one other written non-English language;


(2) Is able to translate effectively, accurately, and impartially to and from such language(s) and English, using any necessary specialized vocabulary or terms without changes, omissions, or additions and while preserving the tone, sentiment, and emotional level of the original written statement; and


(3) Adheres to generally accepted translator ethics principles, including client confidentiality.


*Recipient* means any State or its political subdivision thereof; or any instrumentality of a State or political subdivision thereof; any public or private agency, institution, or organization; other entity; or any person, to whom Federal financial assistance is extended directly or indirectly, including any subunit, successor, assignee, or transferee of a recipient. Such term does not include any ultimate beneficiary.


*Relay interpretation* means interpreting from one language to another through an intermediate language. This mode of interpretation is often used for monolingual speakers of languages of limited diffusion, including select indigenous languages. In relay interpreting, the first interpreter listens to the speaker and renders the message into the intermediate language. The second interpreter receives the message in the intermediate language and interprets it into a third language for the speaker who speaks neither the first nor the second language.


*Section 504* means section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (Pub. L. 93-112; 29 U.S.C. 794), as amended.


*Section 1557* means section 1557 of the ACA (42 U.S.C. 18116).


*State* includes each of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.


*State Exchange* means an Exchange established by a State and approved by the Department pursuant to 45 CFR part 155, subpart B.


*Telehealth* means the use of electronic information and telecommunications technologies to support long-distance clinical health care, patient and professional health-related education, public health, and health administration. Technologies include videoconferencing, the internet, store-and-forward imaging, streaming media, and terrestrial and wireless communications.


*Title I entity* means any entity established under title I of the ACA, as amended, including State Exchanges and Federally-facilitated Exchanges.


*Title VI* means title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (Pub. L. 88-352; 42 U.S.C. 2000d *et seq.*), as amended.


*Title VII* means title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (Pub. L. 88-352; 42 U.S.C. 2000e *et seq.*), as amended.


*Title IX* means title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (Pub. L. 92-318; 20 U.S.C. 1681 *et seq.*), as amended.


*UFAS* means the Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards (Pub. L. 90-480; 42 U.S.C. 4151 *et seq.*), as amended.






