# § 63.2525   What records must I keep?

You must keep the records specified in paragraphs (a) through (t) of this section. 


(a) Except as specified in §§ 63.2450(e)(4), 63.2480(f), and 63.2485(p) and (q) and paragraph (t) of this section, each applicable record required by subpart A of this part and in referenced subparts F, G, SS, UU, WW, and GGG of this part and in referenced subpart F of 40 CFR part 65.


(b) Records of each operating scenario as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (8) of this section. 


(1) A description of the process and the type of process equipment used. 


(2) An identification of related process vents, including their associated emissions episodes if not complying with the alternative standard in § 63.2505; wastewater point of determination (POD); storage tanks; and transfer racks. 


(3) The applicable control requirements of this subpart, including the level of required control, and for vents, the level of control for each vent. 


(4) The control device or treatment process used, as applicable, including a description of operating and/or testing conditions for any associated control device. 


(5) The process vents, wastewater POD, transfer racks, and storage tanks (including those from other processes) that are simultaneously routed to the control device or treatment process(s). 


(6) The applicable monitoring requirements of this subpart and any parametric level that assures compliance for all emissions routed to the control device or treatment process. 


(7) Calculations and engineering analyses required to demonstrate compliance. 


(8) For reporting purposes, a change to any of these elements not previously reported, except for paragraph (b)(5) of this section, constitutes a new operating scenario. 


(c) A schedule or log of operating scenarios for processes with batch vents from batch operations updated each time a different operating scenario is put into effect.


(d) The information specified in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section for Group 1 batch process vents in compliance with a percent reduction emission limit in Table 2 to this subpart if some of the vents are controlled to less the percent reduction requirement. 


(1) Records of whether each batch operated was considered a standard batch. 


(2) The estimated uncontrolled and controlled emissions for each batch that is considered to be a nonstandard batch. 


(e) The information specified in paragraph (e)(2), (3), or (4) of this section, as applicable, for each process with Group 2 batch process vents or uncontrolled hydrogen halide and halogen HAP emissions from the sum of all batch and continuous process vents less than 1,000 lb/yr. No records are required for situations described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section.


(1) No records are required if you documented in your notification of compliance status report that the MCPU meets any of the situations described in paragraph (e)(1)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section.


(i) The MCPU does not process, use, or generate HAP.


(ii) You control the Group 2 batch process vents using a flare that meets the requirements of § 63.987 or § 63.2450(e)(5), as applicable.


(iii) You control the Group 2 batch process vents using a control device for which your determination of worst case for initial compliance includes the contribution of all Group 2 batch process vents.


(2) If you documented in your notification of compliance status report that an MCPU has Group 2 batch process vents because the non-reactive organic HAP is the only HAP and usage is less than 10,000 lb/yr, as specified in § 63.2460(b)(7), you must keep records of the amount of HAP material used, and calculate the daily rolling annual sum of the amount used no less frequently than monthly. If a record indicates usage exceeds 10,000 lb/yr, you must estimate emissions for the preceding 12 months based on the number of batches operated and the estimated emissions for a standard batch, and you must begin recordkeeping as specified in paragraph (e)(4) of this section. After 1 year, you may revert to recording only usage if the usage during the year is less than 10,000 lb.


(3) If you documented in your notification of compliance status report that total uncontrolled organic HAP emissions from the batch process vents in an MCPU will be less than 1,000 lb/yr for the anticipated number of standard batches, then you must keep records of the number of batches operated and calculate a daily rolling annual sum of batches operated no less frequently than monthly. If the number of batches operated results in organic HAP emissions that exceed 1,000 lb/yr, you must estimate emissions for the preceding 12 months based on the number of batches operated and the estimated emissions for a standard batch, and you must begin recordkeeping as specified in paragraph (e)(4) of this section. After 1 year, you may revert to recording only the number of batches if the number of batches operated during the year results in less than 1,000 lb of organic HAP emissions.


(4) If you meet none of the conditions specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section, you must keep records of the information specified in paragraphs (e)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) A record of the day each batch was completed and/or the operating hours per day for continuous operations with hydrogen halide and halogen emissions.


(ii) A record of whether each batch operated was considered a standard batch.


(iii) The estimated uncontrolled and controlled emissions for each batch that is considered to be a nonstandard batch.


(iv) Records of the daily 365-day rolling summations of emissions, or alternative records that correlate to the emissions (e.g., number of batches), calculated no less frequently than monthly.


(f) A record of each time a safety device is opened to avoid unsafe conditions in accordance with § 63.2450(p).


(g) Records of the results of each CPMS calibration check and the maintenance performed, as specified in § 63.2450(k)(1). 


(h) Except as specified in paragraph (l) of this section, for each CEMS, you must keep records of the date and time that each deviation started and stopped, and whether the deviation occurred during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction or during another period.


(i) For each PUG, you must keep records specified in paragraphs (i)(1) through (5) of this section. 


(1) Descriptions of the MCPU and other process units in the initial PUG required by § 63.2535(l)(1)(v). 


(2) Rationale for including each MCPU and other process unit in the initial PUG (*i.e.,* identify the overlapping equipment between process units) required by § 63.2535(l)(1)(v). 


(3) Calculations used to determine the primary product for the initial PUG required by § 63.2535(l)(2)(iv). 


(4) Descriptions of process units added to the PUG after the creation date and rationale for including the additional process units in the PUG as required by § 63.2535(l)(1)(v). 


(5) The calculation of each primary product redetermination required by § 63.2535(l)(2)(iv). 


(j) In the SSMP required by § 63.6(e)(3) of subpart A, you are not required to include Group 2 emission points, unless those emission points are used in an emissions average. For equipment leaks, the SSMP requirement is limited to control devices and is optional for other equipment. On and after August 12, 2023, this paragraph (j) no longer applies.


(k) For each bag leak detector used to monitor PM HAP emissions from a fabric filter, maintain records of any bag leak detection alarm, including the date and time, with a brief explanation of the cause of the alarm and the corrective action taken. 


(l) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), paragraph (h) of this section no longer applies. Instead, for each deviation from an emission limit, operating limit, or work practice standard, you must keep a record of the information specified in paragraph (l)(1) through (3) of this section. The records shall be maintained as specified in § 63.10(b)(1) of subpart A.


(1) In the event that an affected unit does not meet an applicable standard, record the number of deviations. For each deviation record the date, time, and duration of each deviation.


(2) For each deviation from an applicable standard, record and retain a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.


(3) Record actions taken to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.2450(u) and any corrective actions taken to return the affected unit to its normal or usual manner of operation.


(m) For each flare subject to the requirements in § 63.2450(e)(5), you must keep records specified in paragraphs (m)(1) through (14) of this section in lieu of the information required in § 63.998(a)(1) of subpart SS.


(1) Retain records of the output of the monitoring device used to detect the presence of a pilot flame or flare flame as required in § 63.670(b) of subpart CC and the presence of a pilot flame as required in § 63.2450(e)(5)(viii)(D) for a minimum of 2 years. Retain records of each 15-minute block during which there was at least one minute that no pilot flame or flare flame is present when regulated material is routed to a flare for a minimum of 5 years. For a pressure-assisted multi-point flare that uses cross-lighting, retain records of each 15-minute block during which there was at least one minute that no pilot flame is present on each stage when regulated material is routed to a flare for a minimum of 5 years. You may reduce the collected minute-by-minute data to a 15-minute block basis with an indication of whether there was at least one minute where no pilot flame or flare flame was present.


(2) Retain records of daily visible emissions observations as specified in paragraphs (m)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section, as applicable, for a minimum of 3 years.


(i) To determine when visible emissions observations are required, the record must identify all periods when regulated material is vented to the flare.


(ii) If visible emissions observations are performed using Method 22 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, then the record must identify whether the visible emissions observation was performed, the results of each observation, total duration of observed visible emissions, and whether it was a 5-minute or 2-hour observation. Record the date and start time of each visible emissions observation.


(iii) If a video surveillance camera is used pursuant to § 63.670(h)(2) of subpart CC, then the record must include all video surveillance images recorded, with time and date stamps.


(iv) For each 2 hour period for which visible emissions are observed for more than 5 minutes in 2 consecutive hours, then the record must include the date and start and end time of the 2 hour period and an estimate of the cumulative number of minutes in the 2 hour period for which emissions were visible.


(3) The 15-minute block average cumulative flows for flare vent gas and, if applicable, total steam, perimeter assist air, and premix assist air specified to be monitored under § 63.670(i) of subpart CC, along with the date and time interval for the 15-minute block. If multiple monitoring locations are used to determine cumulative vent gas flow, total steam, perimeter assist air, and premix assist air, then retain records of the 15-minute block average flows for each monitoring location for a minimum of 2 years, and retain the 15-minute block average cumulative flows that are used in subsequent calculations for a minimum of 5 years. If pressure and temperature monitoring is used, then retain records of the 15-minute block average temperature, pressure, and molecular weight of the flare vent gas or assist gas stream for each measurement location used to determine the 15-minute block average cumulative flows for a minimum of 2 years, and retain the 15-minute block average cumulative flows that are used in subsequent calculations for a minimum of 5 years.


(4) The flare vent gas compositions specified to be monitored under § 63.670(j) of subpart CC. Retain records of individual component concentrations from each compositional analysis for a minimum of 2 years. If an NHVvg analyzer is used, retain records of the 15-minute block average values for a minimum of 5 years.


(5) Each 15-minute block average operating parameter calculated following the methods specified in § 63.670(k) through (n) of subpart CC, as applicable.


(6) All periods during which operating values are outside of the applicable operating limits specified in §§ 63.670(d) through (f) of subpart CC and 63.2450(e)(5)(viii) when regulated material is being routed to the flare.


(7) All periods during which you do not perform flare monitoring according to the procedures in § 63.670(g) through (j) of subpart CC.


(8) For pressure-assisted multi-point flares, if a stage of burners on the flare uses cross-lighting, then a record of any changes made to the distance between burners.


(9) For pressure-assisted multi-point flares, all periods when the pressure monitor(s) on the main flare header show burners are operating outside the range of the manufacturer's specifications. Indicate the date and time for each period, the pressure measurement, the stage(s) and number of burners affected, and the range of manufacturer's specifications.


(10) For pressure-assisted multi-point flares, all periods when the staging valve position indicator monitoring system indicates a stage of the pressure-assisted multi-point flare should not be in operation and when a stage of the pressure-assisted multi-point flare should be in operation and is not. Indicate the date and time for each period, whether the stage was supposed to be open, but was closed or vice versa, and the stage(s) and number of burners affected.


(11) Records of periods when there is flow of vent gas to the flare, but when there is no flow of regulated material to the flare, including the start and stop time and dates of periods of no regulated material flow.


(12) Records when the flow of vent gas exceeds the smokeless capacity of the flare, including start and stop time and dates of the flaring event.


(13) Records of the root cause analysis and corrective action analysis conducted as required in §§ 63.670(o)(3) of subpart CC and 63.2450(e)(5)(v), including an identification of the affected flare, the date and duration of the event, a statement noting whether the event resulted from the same root cause(s) identified in a previous analysis and either a description of the recommended corrective action(s) or an explanation of why corrective action is not necessary under § 63.670(o)(5)(i) of subpart CC.


(14) For any corrective action analysis for which implementation of corrective actions are required in § 63.670(o)(5) of subpart CC, a description of the corrective action(s) completed within the first 45 days following the discharge and, for action(s) not already completed, a schedule for implementation, including proposed commencement and completion dates.


(n) For each flow event from a bypass line subject to the requirements in § 63.2450(e)(6), you must maintain records sufficient to determine whether or not the detected flow included flow requiring control. For each flow event from a bypass line requiring control that is released either directly to the atmosphere or to a control device not meeting the requirements specified in Tables 1 through 7 to this subpart, you must include an estimate of the volume of gas, the concentration of organic HAP in the gas and the resulting emissions of organic HAP that bypassed the control device using process knowledge and engineering estimates.


(o) For each nonregenerative adsorber and regenerative adsorber that is regenerated offsite subject to the requirements in § 63.2450(e)(7), you must keep the applicable records specified in paragraphs (o)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) Breakthrough limit and bed life established according to § 63.2450(e)(7)(i).


(2) Each outlet HAP or TOC concentration measured according to §§ 63.2450(e)(7)(ii) and (e)(7)(iii).


(3) Date and time you last replaced the adsorbent.


(p) For each maintenance vent opening subject to the requirements in § 63.2450(v), you must keep the applicable records specified in paragraphs (p)(1) through (5) of this section.


(1) You must maintain standard site procedures used to deinventory equipment for safety purposes (*e.g.,* hot work or vessel entry procedures) to document the procedures used to meet the requirements in § 63.2450(v). The current copy of the procedures must be retained and available on-site at all times. Previous versions of the standard site procedures, as applicable, must be retained for five years.


(2) If complying with the requirements of § 63.2450(v)(1)(i) and the concentration of the vapor at the time of the vessel opening exceeds 10 percent of its LEL, identification of the maintenance vent, the process units or equipment associated with the maintenance vent, the date of maintenance vent opening, and the concentration of the vapor at the time of the vessel opening.


(3) If complying with the requirements of § 63.2450(v)(1)(ii) and either the vessel pressure at the time of the vessel opening exceeds 5 psig or the concentration of the vapor at the time of the active purging was initiated exceeds 10 percent of its LEL, identification of the maintenance vent, the process units or equipment associated with the maintenance vent, the date of maintenance vent opening, the pressure of the vessel or equipment at the time of discharge to the atmosphere and, if applicable, the concentration of the vapors in the equipment when active purging was initiated.


(4) If complying with the requirements of § 63.2450(v)(1)(iii), records of the estimating procedures used to determine the total quantity of VOC in the equipment and the type and size limits of equipment that contain less than 50 pounds of VOC at the time of maintenance vent opening. For each maintenance vent opening that contains greater than 50 pounds of VOC for which the deinventory procedures specified in paragraph (p)(1) of this section are not followed or for which the equipment opened exceeds the type and size limits established in the records specified in this paragraph (p)(4), records that identify the maintenance vent, the process units or equipment associated with the maintenance vent, the date of maintenance vent opening, and records used to estimate the total quantity of VOC in the equipment at the time the maintenance vent was opened to the atmosphere.


(5) If complying with the requirements of § 63.2450(v)(1)(iv), identification of the maintenance vent, the process units or equipment associated with the maintenance vent, records documenting actions taken to comply with other applicable alternatives and why utilization of this alternative was required, the date of maintenance vent opening, the equipment pressure and concentration of the vapors in the equipment at the time of discharge, an indication of whether active purging was performed and the pressure of the equipment during the installation or removal of the blind if active purging was used, the duration the maintenance vent was open during the blind installation or removal process, and records used to estimate the total quantity of VOC in the equipment at the time the maintenance vent was opened to the atmosphere for each applicable maintenance vent opening.


(q) For each pressure relief device subject to the pressure release management work practice standards in § 63.2480(e), you must keep the records specified in paragraphs (q)(1) through (3) of this section.


(1) Records of the prevention measures implemented as required in § 63.2480(e)(3)(ii).


(2) Records of the number of releases during each calendar year and, prior to June 3, 2024, the number of those releases for which the root cause was determined to be a *force majeure* event. Keep these records for the current calendar year and the past 5 calendar years.






(3) For each release to the atmosphere, you must keep the records specified in paragraphs (q)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) The start and end time and date of each pressure release to the atmosphere.


(ii) Records of any data, assumptions, and calculations used to estimate of the mass quantity of each organic HAP released during the event.


(iii) Records of the root cause analysis and corrective action analysis conducted as required in § 63.2480(e)(3)(iii), including an identification of the affected facility, a statement noting whether the event resulted from the same root cause(s) identified in a previous analysis and either a description of the recommended corrective action(s) or an explanation of why corrective action is not necessary under § 63.2480(e)(7)(i).


(iv) For any corrective action analysis for which implementation of corrective actions are required in § 63.2480(e)(7), a description of the corrective action(s) completed within the first 45 days following the discharge and, for action(s) not already completed, a schedule for implementation, including proposed commencement and completion dates.


(r) For each heat exchange system, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), the recordkeeping requirements of § 63.104(f)(1) no longer apply; instead, you must keep records in paragraphs (r)(1) through (4) of this section.


(1) Monitoring data required by § 63.2490(d) and (e) that indicate a leak, the date the leak was detected, or, if applicable, the basis for determining there is no leak.


(2) The dates of efforts to repair leaks.


(3) The method or procedures used to confirm repair of a leak and the date the repair was confirmed.


(4) Documentation of delay of repair as specified in paragraphs (r)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) The reason(s) for delaying repair.


(ii) A schedule for completing the repair as soon as practical.


(iii) The date and concentration or mass emissions rate of the leak as first identified and the results of all subsequent monitoring events during the delay of repair.


(iv) An estimate of the potential total hydrocarbon emissions (if you monitor the cooling water for leaks according to § 63.2490(d)(1)) or monitored substance(s) emissions (if you monitor the cooling water for leaks according to § 63.2490(e)) from the leaking heat exchange system or heat exchanger for each required delay of repair monitoring interval following the procedures in paragraphs (r)(4)(iv)(A) through (D) of this section.


(A) If you comply with the total strippable hydrocarbon concentration leak action level, as specified in § 63.2490(d)(1)(iv), you must calculate the mass emissions rate by complying with the requirements of § 63.2490(d)(1)(iii)(B) or by determining the mass flow rate of the cooling water at the monitoring location where the leak was detected. If the monitoring location is an individual cooling tower riser, determine the total cooling water mass flow rate to the cooling tower. Cooling water mass flow rates may be determined using direct measurement, pump curves, heat balance calculations, or other engineering methods. If you determine the mass flow rate of the cooling water, calculate the mass emissions rate by converting the stripping gas leak concentration (in ppmv as methane) to an equivalent liquid concentration, in parts per million by weight (ppmw), using equation 7-1 from “Air Stripping Method (Modified El Paso Method) for Determination of Volatile Organic Compound Emissions from Water Sources” (incorporated by reference—see § 63.14) and multiply the equivalent liquid concentration by the mass flow rate of the cooling water.


(B) For delay of repair monitoring intervals prior to repair of the leak, calculate the potential total hydrocarbon emissions or monitored substance(s) emissions for the leaking heat exchange system or heat exchanger for the monitoring interval by multiplying the mass emissions rate, determined in § 63.2490(d)(1)(iii)(B) or paragraph (r)(4)(iv)(A) or (D) of this section, by the duration of the delay of repair monitoring interval. The duration of the delay of repair monitoring interval is the time period starting at midnight on the day of the previous monitoring event or at midnight on the day the repair would have had to be completed if the repair had not been delayed, whichever is later, and ending at midnight of the day the of the current monitoring event.


(C) For delay of repair monitoring intervals ending with a repaired leak, calculate the potential total hydrocarbon emissions or monitored substance(s) emissions for the leaking heat exchange system or heat exchanger for the final delay of repair monitoring interval by multiplying the duration of the final delay of repair monitoring interval by the mass emissions rate determined for the last monitoring event prior to the re-monitoring event used to verify the leak was repaired. The duration of the final delay of repair monitoring interval is the time period starting at midnight of the day of the last monitoring event prior to re-monitoring to verify the leak was repaired and ending at the time of the re-monitoring event that verified that the leak was repaired.


(D) If you monitor the cooling water for leaks according to § 63.2490(e), you must calculate the mass emissions rate by determining the mass flow rate of the cooling water at the monitoring location where the leak was detected. Cooling water mass flow rates may be determined using direct measurement, pump curves, heat balance calculations, or other engineering methods. Once determined, multiply the mass flow rate of the cooling water by the concentration of the measured substance(s).


(s) For process vents and storage tanks in ethylene oxide service subject to the requirements of § 63.2493, you must keep the records specified in paragraphs (s)(1) through (5) of this section in addition to those records specified in paragraph (a) of this section. Records for equipment in ethylene oxide service subject to the requirements of § 63.2493 are specified in paragraph (a) of this section.


(1) For process vents, include all uncontrolled, undiluted ethylene oxide concentration measurements, and the calculations you used to determine the total uncontrolled ethylene oxide mass emission rate for the sum of all vent gas streams.


(2) For storage tanks, records of the concentration of ethylene oxide of the fluid stored in each storage tank.


(3) For equipment, records of the percent ethylene oxide content of the process fluid and the method used to determine it.


(4) If you vent emissions through a closed-vent system to a non-flare control device, then you must keep records of all periods during which operating values are outside of the applicable operating limits specified in § 63.2493(b)(4) through (6) when regulated material is being routed to the non-flare control device. The record must specify the operating parameter, the applicable limit, and the highest (for maximum operating limits) or lowest (for minimum operating limits) value recorded during the period.


(5) For pressure vessels subject to § 63.2493(c), records as specified in paragraphs (s)(5)(i) through (iv) of this section.


(i) The date of each performance test conducted according to § 63.2493(c)(2).


(ii) The instrument reading of each performance test conducted according to § 63.2493(c)(2), including the following:


(A) Date each defect was detected.


(B) Date of the next performance test that shows the instrument reading is less than 500 ppmv.


(C) Start and end dates of each period after the date in paragraph (s)(5)(ii)(A) of this section when the pressure vessel was completely empty.


(D) Estimated emissions from each defect.


(t) Any records required to be maintained by this part that are submitted electronically via the EPA's CEDRI may be maintained in electronic format. This ability to maintain electronic copies does not affect the requirement for facilities to make records, data, and reports available upon request to a delegated air agency or the EPA as part of an on-site compliance evaluation.


(u) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), the referenced provisions specified in paragraphs (u)(1) through (8) of this section do not apply when demonstrating compliance with paragraph (a) of this section.


(1) Section 63.103(c)(2)(i) of subpart F.


(2) Section 63.103(c)(2)(ii) of subpart F.


(3) The phrase “start-up, shutdown and malfunction and” from § 63.103(c)(3) of subpart F.


(4) The phrase “other than startups, shutdowns, or malfunctions (*e.g.,* a temperature reading of −200 °C on a boiler),” from § 63.152(g)(1)(i) of subpart G.


(5) The phrase “other than a startup, shutdown, or malfunction” from § 63.152(g)(1)(ii)(C) of subpart G.


(6) The phrase “other than startups, shutdowns, or malfunctions” from § 63.152(g)(1)(iii) of subpart G.


(7) The phrase “other than a startup, shutdown, or malfunction” from § 63.152(g)(2)(iii) of subpart G.


(8) Section 63.152(g)(2)(iv)(A) of subpart G.



---

[N] [68 FR 63888, Nov. 10, 2003, as amended at 70 FR 38560, July 1, 2005; 71 FR 40337, July 14, 2006; 85 FR 49155, Aug. 12, 2020; 89 FR 23872, Apr. 4, 2024]




