# § 282.78   Nevada State-Administered Program.

(a) The State of Nevada is approved to administer and enforce an underground storage tank program in lieu of the Federal program under Subtitle I of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (RCRA), as amended, 42 U.S.C. 6991 *et seq.* The state's program, as administered by the Nevada Division of Environmental Protection was approved by EPA pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 6991c and part 281 of this chapter. EPA approved the Nevada program on December 24, 1992 and it was effective March 30, 1993.


(b) Nevada has primary responsibility for enforcing its underground storage tank program. However, EPA retains the authority to exercise its inspection and enforcement authorities under sections 9005 and 9006 of Subtitle I of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991d and 6991e, as well as under other statutory and regulatory provisions.


(c) To retain program approval, Nevada must revise its approved program to adopt new changes to the Federal Subtitle I program, which makes it more stringent in accordance with section 9004 of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991c, and 40 CFR part 281, subpart E. If Nevada obtains approval for the revised requirements pursuant to section 9004 of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991c, the newly approved statutory and regulatory provisions will be added to this subpart and notice of any change will be published in the _Federal Register._

(d) Nevada has final approval for the following elements submitted to EPA in Nevada's program application for final approval and approved by EPA on December 24, 1992. Copies may be obtained from the Nevada State Office Library, Board Room, 100 Stewart Street, Carson City, Nevada 89710.


(1) *State statutes and regulations.* (i) The provisions cited in this paragraph are incorporated by reference as part of the underground storage tank program under Subtitle I of RCRA, 42. U.S.C. 6991 *et seq.*

(A) Nevada Statutory Requirements Applicable to the Underground Storage Tank Program, 1992.


(B) Nevada Regulatory Requirements Applicable to the Underground Storage Tank Program, 1992.


(ii) The following statutes and regulations are part of the approved state program, although not incorporated by reference herein for enforcement purposes.


(A) The statutory provisions include: Nevada Revised Statutes 459 Underground Storage Tank Program (1992) Sections 459.826, 459.830, 459.832, 459.834, 459.844, 459.846, 459.848, 459.850, 459.852, 459.854, and 459.856.


(B) The regulatory provisions include: none.


(iii) The following statutory and regulatory provisions are broader in scope than the Federal program, are not part of the approved program, and are not incorporated by reference herein for enforcement purposes: none.


(2) *Statement of legal authority.* (i) “Attorney General's Statement of Final Approval,” signed by the Attorney General of Nevada on December 1, 1992, though not incorporated by reference, is referenced as part of the approved underground storage tank program under Subtitle I of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991 *et seq.*

(ii) Letter from the Attorney General of Nevada to EPA, dated December 1, 1992, though not incorporated by reference, is referenced as part of the approved underground storage tank program under Subtitle I of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991 *et seq.*

(3) *Demonstration of procedures for adequate enforcement.* The “Demonstration of Procedures for Adequate Enforcement” submitted as part of the original application of October 1, 1992, though not incorporated by reference, is referenced as part of the approved underground storage tank program under Subtitle I of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991 *et seq.*

(4) *Program description.* The program description and any other material submitted as part of the original application in October 1992, though not incorporated by reference, are referenced as part of the approved underground storage tank program under Subtitle I of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991 *et seq.*

(5) *Memorandum of Agreement.* The Memorandum of Agreement between EPA Region 9 and the Nevada Division of Environmental Protection, signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on December 17, 1992, though not incorporated by reference, is referenced as part of the approved underground storage tank program under Subtitle I of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6991 *et seq.*


---

[N] [63 FR 38500, July 17, 1998]




