# § 63.2515   What notifications must I submit and when?

(a) *General.* Except as specified in paragraph (d) of this section, you must submit all of the notifications in §§ 63.6(h)(4) and (5), 63.7(b) and (c), 63.8(e) and (f)(4) and (6), and 63.9(b) through (h) of subpart A that apply to you by the dates specified.


(b) *Initial notification.* (1) As specified in § 63.9(b)(2), if you startup your affected source before November 10, 2003, you must submit an initial notification not later than 120 calendar days after November 10, 2003, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later.


(2) As specified in § 63.9(b)(3), if you startup your new affected source on or after November 10, 2003, you must submit an initial notification not later than 120 calendar days after you become subject to this subpart. 


(c) *Notification of performance test.* If you are required to conduct a performance test, you must submit a notification of intent to conduct a performance test at least 60 calendar days before the performance test is scheduled to begin as required in § 63.7(b)(1). For any performance test required as part of the initial compliance procedures for batch process vents in table 2 to this subpart, you must also submit the test plan required by § 63.7(c) and the emission profile with the notification of the performance test. 


(d) *Supplement to Notification of Compliance Status.* You must also submit supplements to the Notification of Compliance Status as specified in § 63.2520(d)(3) through (6).



---

[N] [68 FR 63888, Nov. 10, 2003, as amended at 85 FR 49150, Aug. 12, 2020; 85 FR 73903, Nov. 19, 2020; 89 FR 23870, Apr. 4, 2024]




