# § 63.427   Continuous monitoring.

(a) Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal subject to the provisions in § 63.422(b)(1) shall install, calibrate, certify, operate, and maintain, according to the manufacturer's specifications, a continuous monitoring system (CMS) as specified in paragraph (a)(1), (2), (3), or (4) of this section, except as allowed in paragraph (a)(5) of this section.










(1) Where a carbon adsorption system is used, a continuous emission monitoring system (CEMS) capable of measuring organic compound concentration shall be installed in the exhaust air stream.


(2) Where a refrigeration condenser system is used, a continuous parameter monitoring system (CPMS) capable of measuring temperature shall be installed immediately downstream from the outlet to the condenser section. Alternatively, a CEMS capable of measuring organic compound concentration may be installed in the exhaust air stream.


(3) Where a thermal oxidation system is used, a CPMS capable of measuring temperature must be installed in the firebox or in the ductwork immediately downstream from the firebox in a position before any substantial heat exchange occurs.




(4) Where a flare meeting the requirements in § 63.11(b) is used, a heat-sensing device, such as an ultraviolet beam sensor or a thermocouple, must be installed in proximity to the pilot light to indicate the presence of a flame. 


(5) Monitoring an alternative operating parameter or a parameter of a vapor processing system other than those listed in this paragraph will be allowed upon demonstrating to the Administrator's satisfaction that the alternative parameter demonstrates continuous compliance with the emission standard in § 63.422(b) or § 60.112b(a)(3)(ii) of this chapter.


(b) Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal subject to the provisions in § 63.422(b)(1) shall operate the vapor processing system in a manner not to exceed the operating parameter value for the parameter described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, or to go below the operating parameter value for the parameter described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, and established using the procedures in § 63.425(b). In cases where an alternative parameter pursuant to paragraph (a)(5) of this section is approved, each owner or operator shall operate the vapor processing system in a manner not to exceed or not to go below, as appropriate, the alternative operating parameter value. Operation of the vapor processing system in a manner exceeding or going below the operating parameter value, as specified above, shall constitute a violation of the emission standard in § 63.422(b)(1).


(c) Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal subject to the provisions in § 63.422(b)(2) shall install, calibrate, certify, operate, and maintain a CMS as specified in § 60.504a(a) through (d) of this chapter, as applicable. You may use the limited alternative monitoring methods as specified in § 60.504a(e) of this chapter, if applicable.


(d) Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal subject to the provisions in § 63.422(b)(2) shall operate the vapor processing system in a manner consistent with the minimum and/or maximum operating parameter value or procedures described in §§ 60.502a(a) and (c) and 60.504a(a) and (c) of this chapter. Operation of the vapor processing system in a manner that constitutes a period of excess emissions or failure to perform procedures required shall constitute a deviation of the emission standard in § 63.422(b)(2).


(e) Each owner or operator of gasoline storage vessels subject to the provisions of § 63.423 shall comply with the monitoring requirements in § 60.116b of this chapter, except records shall be kept for at least 5 years. If a closed vent system and control device are used, as specified in § 60.112b(a)(3) of this chapter, to comply with the requirements in § 63.423, the owner or operator shall also comply with the requirements in paragraph (e)(1) or (2) of this section, as applicable.


(1) If the gasoline storage vessel is subject to the provision in § 63.423(a) or if the gasoline storage vessel is subject to the provision in § 63.423(b) and a control device other than a flare is used for the gasoline storage vessel, the owner or operator shall also comply with the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section.


(2) If the gasoline storage vessel is subject to the provision in § 63.423(b) and a flare is used as the control device for the affected gasoline storage vessel, you must comply with the monitoring requirements in § 60.504a(c) of this chapter.


(f) As an alternative to the pressure monitoring requirements in § 60.504a(d) of this chapter, you may comply with the pressure monitoring requirements in § 60.503(d) of this chapter during any performance test or performance evaluation conducted under § 63.425(c) to demonstrate compliance with the provisions in § 60.502a(h) of this chapter.







---

[N] [59 FR 46350, Sept. 8, 1994, as amended at 68 FR 70966, Dec. 19, 2003; 89 FR 39363, May 8, 2024]












