# ยง 2417.103   Definitions.

The following definitions apply to this part:


*Demand* means an order, subpoena, or other command of a court or other competent authority for the production, disclosure, or release of records, or for the appearance and testimony of an employee in a civil legal proceeding.


*Employee* means:


(1)(i) Any current or former employee or member of the Authority, the General Counsel, or the Panel;


(ii) Any other individual hired through contractual agreement by or on behalf of the Authority, the General Counsel, or the Panel, or who has performed or is performing services under such an agreement for the Authority, the General Counsel, or the Panel; and


(iii) Any individual who served or is serving in any consulting or advisory capacity to the Authority, the General Counsel, or the Panel, whether formal or informal.


(2) This definition does not include former FLRA employees who agree to testify about general matters, matters available to the public, or matters with which they had no specific involvement or responsibility during their employment with the FLRA.


*Legal proceeding* means any matter before a court of law, administrative board or tribunal, commission, administrative law judge, hearing officer, or other body that conducts a civil legal or administrative proceeding. Legal proceeding includes all phases of litigation.


*Records or official records and information* means all information in the custody and control of the Authority, the General Counsel, or the Panel, relating to information in the custody and control thereof, or acquired by an employee while in the performance of his or her official duties or because of his or her official status, while the individual was employed by or on behalf of the Authority, the General Counsel, or the Panel.


*Request* means any request, by whatever method, for the production of records and information or for testimony that has not been ordered by a court or other competent authority.


*Requester* means anyone who makes a request or demand under this part upon the FLRA.


*Testimony* means any written or oral statements, including depositions, answers to interrogatories, affidavits, declarations, interviews, and statements made by an individual in connection with a legal proceeding.



---

[N] [81 FR 63362, Sept. 15, 2016]




