# § 391.2   General exceptions.

(a) *Farm custom operation.* The rules in this part, except for § 391.15(e) and (f), do not apply to a driver who drives a commercial motor vehicle controlled and operated by a person engaged in custom-harvesting operations, if the commercial motor vehicle is used to—


(1) Transport farm machinery, supplies, or both, to or from a farm for custom-harvesting operations on a farm; or


(2) Transport custom-harvested crops to storage or market.


(b) *Apiarian industries.* The rules in this part, except for § 391.15(e) and (f), do not apply to a driver who is operating a commercial motor vehicle controlled and operated by a beekeeper engaged in the seasonal transportation of bees.


(c) *Certain farm vehicle drivers.* The rules in this part, except for § 391.15(e) and (f), do not apply to a farm vehicle driver except a farm vehicle driver who drives an articulated (combination) commercial motor vehicle, as defined in § 390.5 of this chapter. For limited exemptions for farm vehicle drivers of articulated commercial motor vehicles, see § 391.67.


(d) *Covered farm vehicles.* The rules in part 391, Subpart E—Physical Qualifications and Examinations—do not apply to drivers of “covered farm vehicles,” as defined in 49 CFR 390.5.


(e) *Pipeline welding trucks.* The rules in this part do not apply to drivers of “pipeline welding trucks” as defined in 49 CFR 390.38(b).



---

[N] [76 FR 75487, Dec. 2, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 16195, Mar. 14, 2013; 78 FR 58483, Sept. 24, 2013; 81 FR 47720, July 22, 2016]




