# 225.7024-3   Procedures.

(a) For contracts for the acquisition of fuel for overseas contingency operations, including contracts using FAR part 12 procedures, expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold, the contracting officer—


(1) May request records from the prospective contractor to verify compliance with the following statutes and regulations only when the head of the contracting activity determines in writing that it is necessary:


(i) The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (15 U.S.C. 78dd-1 *et seq.*).


(ii) International Traffic in Arms Regulations at 22 CFR parts 120 through 130 (see PGI 225.7901-2).


(iii) Export Administration Regulations at 15 CFR parts 730 through 774 (see PGI 225.7901-2).


(iv) Relevant regulations promulgated by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury. Sanction information for specific countries and programs is available at *https://ofac.treasury.gov/sanctions-programs-and-country-information.*

(2) To the maximum extent practicable, shall not disqualify an otherwise responsible offeror on the basis of an unsupported denial of access to a facility or equipment by a host-nation government. The provision at 252.225-7065, Restriction on Acquisition of Fuel for Overseas Contingency Operations, requires offerors to report promptly to the contracting officer, prior to award, any instance of unsupported denial of access to a facility or equipment by a host-nation government that may prevent it from complying with the terms and conditions of the solicitation.


(b) See 215.101-71 for the requirement to consider using a tradeoff process.



---

[N] [89 FR 78999, Sept. 26, 2024]






