# ยง 726.116   Appeal process.

(a) *How to appeal.* Any applicant that wishes to appeal DCMWC's determination on an application must submit a written appeal to the Director of OWCP in the form and manner prescribed by OWCP within 30 days of DCMWC issuing such determination. This deadline may not be extended.


(b) *What to submit.* Within 30 days after filing a written appeal, the applicant must submit any briefing on which it intends to rely, including any arguments that DCMWC's initial determination was erroneous. The applicant is not entitled to submit any further evidence at this time; all evidence must be submitted to DCMWC with the initial application. OWCP may, at its discretion, extend this deadline at the applicant's request for up to 30 days upon a showing of good cause. No more than two extensions will be granted.


(c) *Conferences.* (1) The applicant may request an informal conference to present its position. Such request must be made in writing when the applicant submits briefing in support of its appeal.


(2) If the applicant requests a conference, the Director of OWCP will hold one with the applicant's representatives and the Department's Office of the Solicitor.


(3) If the applicant does not request a conference, OWCP may either decide the appeal on the record or, at its discretion, schedule a conference on its own initiative.


(4) The conference will be limited to the issues identified in the applicant's written materials.


(d) *OWCP's review.* OWCP will review the previous determination and issue a final agency decision.


(1) The Director of OWCP will review the initial decision, evidence of record, and arguments submitted on appeal. The applicant may not submit new evidence to the Director of OWCP.


(2) The Director of OWCP will have 60 days from receipt of the appeal to take up the appeal and issue a final agency decision.


(3) If the Director of OWCP issues a final agency decision denying self- insurance, any existing self-insurance authorization of the applicant will end. The applicant will have 30 days from the issuance of the final agency decision to obtain and submit proof of commercial insurance or begin facing civil penalties for failure to secure benefits.








