# § 105.237   System for seafarers' access.

(a) *Access required.* Each facility owner or operator must implement a system by June 1, 2020 for providing access through the facility that enables individuals to transit to and from a vessel moored at the facility and the facility gate in accordance with the requirements in this section. The system must provide timely access as described in paragraph (c) of this section and incorporate the access methods described in paragraph (d) of this section at no cost to the individuals covered. The system must comply with the Transportation Worker Identification Credential (TWIC) provisions in this part.


(b) *Individuals covered.* The individuals to whom the facility owner or operator must provide the access described in this section include—


(1) Seafarers assigned to a vessel at that facility;


(2) Pilots; and


(3) Representatives of seafarers' welfare and labor organizations.


(c) *Timely access.* The facility owner or operator must provide the access described in this section without unreasonable delay, subject to review by the Captain of the Port (COTP). The facility owner or operator must consider the following when establishing timely access without unreasonable delay:


(1) Length of time the vessel is in port.


(2) Distance of egress/ingress between the vessel and facility gate.


(3) The vessel watch schedules.


(4) The facility's safety and security procedures as required by law.


(5) Any other factors specific to the vessel or facility that could affect access to and from the vessel.


(d) *Access methods.* The facility owner or operator must ensure that the access described in this section is provided through one or more of the following methods:


(1) Regularly scheduled escort between the vessel and the facility gate that conforms to the vessel's watch schedule as agreed upon between the vessel and facility.


(2) An on-call escort between the vessel and the facility gate.


(3) Arrangements with taxi services or other transportation services, ensuring that any costs for providing the access described in this section, above the service's standard fees charged to any customer, are not charged to the individual to whom such access is provided. If a facility provides arrangements with taxi services or other transportation services as the only method for providing the access described in this section, the facility is responsible to pay any fees for transit within the facility.


(4) Arrangements with seafarers' welfare organizations to facilitate the access described in this section.


(5) Monitored pedestrian access routes between the vessel and facility gate.


(6) A method, other than those in paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section, approved by the COTP.


(7) If an access method relies on a third party, a back-up access method that will be used if the third party is unable to or does not provide the required access in any instance. An owner or operator must ensure that the access required in paragraph (a) of this section is actually provided in all instances.


(e) *No cost to individuals.* The facility owner or operator must provide the access described in this section at no cost to the individual to whom such access is provided.


(f) *Described in the Facility Security Plan (FSP).* On or before February 3, 2020, the facility owner or operator must document the facility's system for providing the access described in this section in the approved FSP in accordance with § 105.410 or § 105.415. The description of the facility's system must include—


(1) Location of transit area(s) used for providing the access described in this section;


(2) Duties and number of facility personnel assigned to each duty associated with providing the access described in this section;


(3) Methods of escorting and/or monitoring individuals transiting through the facility;


(4) Agreements or arrangements between the facility and private parties, nonprofit organizations, or other parties, to facilitate the access described in this section; and


(5) Maximum length of time an individual would wait for the access described in this section, based on the provided access method(s).



---

[N] [USCG-2013-1087, 84 FR 12119, Apr. 1, 2019]




