# § 110.17   Price index increase.

(a) *Price index increases for party committee expenditure limitations and Presidential candidate expenditure limitations.* The limitations on expenditures established by 11 CFR 109.32 and 110.8 shall be increased by the percent difference between the price index, as certified to the Commission by the Secretary of Labor, for the 12 months preceding the beginning of the calendar year and the price index for the base period. 


(1) Each expenditure limitation so increased shall be the expenditure limitation in effect for that calendar year. 


(2) For purposes of this paragraph (a), the term base period means calendar year 1974. 


(b) *Price index increases for contributions by persons and political party committees to Senatorial candidates.* The limitations on contributions established by 11 CFR 110.1(b) and (c) and 110.2(e) shall be increased only in odd-numbered years by the percent difference between the price index, as certified to the Commission by the Secretary of Labor, for the 12 months preceding the beginning of the calendar year and the price index for the base period.


(1) The increased contribution limitations shall be in effect as provided in 11 CFR 110.1(b)(1)(ii), 110.1(c)(1)(ii), and 110.2(e)(2). 


(2) For purposes of this paragraph (b) the term *base period* means calendar year 2001. 


(c) *Rounding of price index increases.* If any amount after the increases under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section is not a multiple of $100, such amount shall be rounded to the nearest multiple of $100. 


(d) *Definition of price index.* For purposes of this section, the term *price index* means the average over a calendar year of the Consumer Price Index (all items—United States city average) published monthly by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. 


(e) *Publication of price index increases*—(1) *Expenditure and Contribution Limitations.* In every odd-numbered year, the Commission will publish in the _Federal Register_ the amount of the expenditure and contribution limitations in effect and place such information on the Commission's website.


(2) *Lobbyist/registrant and lobbyist/registrant PAC contribution bundling disclosure threshold.* In every calendar year, the Commission will publish in the _Federal Register_ the amount of the lobbyist/registrant and lobbyist/registrant PAC contribution bundling disclosure threshold in effect and place such information on the Commission's website.


(f) *Price index increases for lobbyist/registrant and lobbyist/registrant PAC contribution bundling threshold.* The threshold for disclosure of lobbyists/registrants and lobbyist/registrant PACs that bundle contributions shall be indexed for each calendar year in accordance with 11 CFR 104.22(g).



---

[N] [67 FR 69949, Nov. 19, 2002, as amended at 74 FR 7304, Feb. 17, 2009; 75 FR 32, Jan. 4, 2010; 79 FR 62336, Oct. 17, 2014; 89 FR 217, Jan. 2, 2024]




