# ยง 285.700   What reports must I submit to BSEE before installing facilities described in my approved SAP, COP, or GAP?

(a) You must submit the following reports to BSEE before installing facilities described in your approved COP (30 CFR 585.632(a)) and, when required by 30 CFR part 585, in your approved SAP (30 CFR 585.614(b)) or GAP (30 CFR 585.651):


(1) A Facility Design Report (FDR); and


(2) A Fabrication and Installation Report (FIR).


(b) You may submit separate FDRs and FIRs for integrated asset packages unless otherwise agreed to by BSEE (*e.g.,* wind turbine generator (WTG), offshore substation/electrical service platform, array cables, export cables, and seabed preparation). If you submit separate FDRs and FIRs by integrated asset packages, you must:


(1) Ensure FDR(s) and FIR(s) for integrated asset package(s) are complete (e.g., the WTG package includes the RNA, blades, tower, foundation, and transition piece, if applicable);


(2) Explain to BSEE how all FDR(s) and FIR(s) for integrated asset packages will function together effectively in an integrated manner in accordance with your project design; and


(3) Demonstrate that such integration has been verified by your CVA.


(c) You may submit your FDRs and FIRs before or after SAP, COP, or GAP approval.


(d) Subject to the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section, you may commence fabrication and installation of the facilities on the OCS as described in each report:


(1) If BSEE deems your report submitted before SAP, COP, or GAP approval and notifies you of its non-objection to the FDR and FIR or does not respond with objections within 60 business days of SAP, COP, or GAP approval; or


(2) If BSEE deems your report submitted after SAP, COP, or GAP approval and notifies you of its non-objection to the FDR and FIR or does not respond with objections within 60 business days of the report being deemed submitted.


(e) You may commence procurement of discrete parts of the project that are commercially available in standardized form and type-certified components, or fabrication activities that do not take place on the OCS (e.g., manufacturing), prior to the submittal of the reports required under paragraph (a) of this section or any plans required under 30 CFR parts 585 and 586. The procurement and fabrication of facility components allowed under this section are subject to verification and certification by your CVA, and BSEE may object to the installation of said components on the OCS if it considers that the components or their fabrication are inconsistent with accepted industry or engineering standards, the approved SAP, COP, or GAP, the FDR or FIR, or BSEE's regulations.


(f) If BSEE has objections, we will notify you in writing within 60 business days of the report being deemed submitted. Following initial notification of any objections, BSEE may follow up with written correspondence detailing its objections to the report and requesting that certain actions be undertaken. You cannot commence fabrication or installation activities on the OCS that are addressed in such reports until you resolve all objections to BSEE's satisfaction.



---

[N] [89 FR 42715, May 15, 2024]








