# § 147.1150   State-administered program—Class II wells.

The UIC program for Class II injection wells in the State of Michigan, except for those in Indian country, is the program administered by the Michigan Department of Environment, Great Lakes, and Energy, approved by EPA pursuant to the Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA) section 1425. The effective date of this program is August 29, 2022. Table 1 to paragraph (a) of this section is the table of contents of the Michigan State statutes and regulations incorporated as follows by reference. This program consists of the following elements, as submitted to the EPA in the State's program application.


(a) *Incorporation by reference.* The requirements set forth in the State's statutes and regulations approved by EPA for inclusion in “EPA-Approved State of Michigan Safe Drinking Water Act § 1425 Underground Injection Control (UIC) Program Statutes and Regulations for Class II wells,” dated November 24, 2020, and listed in Table 1 to this paragraph (a), are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of the applicable UIC program under SDWA for the State of Michigan. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of the Michigan regulations and statutes that are incorporated by reference may be inspected at the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Water Docket, EPA Docket Center (EPA/DC), EPA WJC West, Room 3334, 1301 Constitution Ave. NW, Washington, DC 20004; the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 5, 77 West Jackson Boulevard, Chicago, Illinois 60604; or the Michigan Department of Environment, Great Lakes, and Energy, Oil, Gas, and Minerals Division, Constitution Hall, 525 West Allegan Street, Lansing, Michigan 48909; telephone number (517) 284-6823. If you wish to obtain materials from the EPA Headquarters in Washington DC, please call the Water Docket at (202) 566-2426 or from the EPA Regional Office, please call (312) 353-2147. You may also inspect the materials at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email *fr.inspection@nara.gov,* or go to *www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.*

(b) *Memorandum of Agreement (MOA).* The MOA between EPA Region 5 and the State of Michigan Department of Environment, Great Lakes, and Energy signed by the EPA Regional Administrator on October 13, 2020.


(c) *Statements of Legal Authority.* “Underground Injection Control Program, Attorney General's Statement,” signed by the Chief of the Environment, Natural Resources, and Agriculture Division of the Michigan Department of Attorney General on September 1, 2020.


(d) *Program Description.* The Program Description submitted as part of Michigan's application, and any other materials submitted as part of this application or as a supplement thereto.



---

[N] [87 FR 45255, July 28, 2022]




