# ยง 415.35   Acceptable flight risk.

(a) *Flight risk through orbital insertion or impact.* Acceptable flight risk through orbital insertion for an orbital launch vehicle, and through impact for a suborbital launch vehicle, is measured in terms of the expected average number of casualties (_Ec_) to the collective members of the public exposed to debris hazards from any one launch. To obtain safety approval, an applicant must demonstrate that the risk level associated with debris from an applicant's proposed launch meets the public risk criteria of ยง 417.107(b)(1) of this chapter for impacting inert and impacting explosive debris.


(b) *Hazard identification and risk assessment.* To demonstrate compliance with paragraph (a) of this section, an applicant must file an analysis that identifies hazards and assesses risks to public health and safety and safety of property associated with nominal and non-nominal flight of its proposed launch.


(c) *Design.* A launch vehicle must be designed to ensure that flight risks meet the criteria of paragraph (a) of this section. An applicant must identify and describe the following:


(1) Launch vehicle structure, including physical dimensions and weight;


(2) Hazardous and safety critical systems, including propulsion systems; and


(3) Drawings and schematics for each system identified under paragraph (c)(2) of this section.


(d) *Operation.* A launch vehicle must be operated in a manner that ensures that flight risks meet the criteria of paragraph (a) of this section and in accordance with collision avoidance requirements in ยง 450.169 and critical asset protection requirements in ยง 450.101(a)(4) and (b)(4). An applicant must identify all launch operations and procedures that must be performed to ensure acceptable flight risk.



---

[N] [Doc. No. FAA-2000-7953, 71 FR 50531, Aug. 25, 2006, as amended by Amdt. No. 415-6, 81 FR 59439, Aug. 30, 2016; Doc. No. FAA-2019-0229, Amdt. 415-7, 85 FR 79715, Dec. 10, 2020]




