# ยง 701.1   Scope.

(a) This part provides general introductory material for the permanent regulatory program required by the Act.


(b) The following regulations apply to the permanent regulatory program:


(1) Subchapter C on State program application, approval, withdrawal, and grants, and Federal program implementation;


(2) Subchapter D on surface coal mining and reclamation operations on Federal lands;


(3) Subchapter E on surface coal mining and reclamation operations on Indian lands.


(4) Subchapter F on criteria for designating lands unsuitable for surface coal mining operations and the process for designating these lands or withdrawing the designation by the regulatory authority; *Provided,* That, part 761 is applicable during the initial regulatory program under subchapter B of this chapter and 30 CFR part 211
1 and that part 769 and other parts incorporated therein are applicable to the initial Federal lands program under 30 CFR part 211;


(5) Subchapter G on the process for application, approval, denial, revision, and renewal of permits for surface coal mining and reclamation operations, including the small operator assistance program, requirements for special categories of these operations, and requirements for coal exploration;


(6) Subchapter J on public liability insurance and performance bonds or other assurances of performance for surface coal mining and reclamation operations;


(7) Subchapter K on performance standards which apply to coal exploration, surface coal mining and reclamation operations, and special categories of these operations;


(8) Subchapter L on inspection and enforcement responsibilities and civil penalties; and


(9) Subchapter M on the training, examination, and certification of blasters.



---

[N] [44 FR 15316, Mar. 13, 1979; 44 FR 49685, Aug. 24, 1979, as amended at 44 FR 77445, Dec. 31, 1979; 49 FR 38477, Sept. 28, 1984]




