# § 51.2950   U.S. No. 3.

“U.S. No. 3” consists of walnuts in shells which are dry, fairly clean, free from splits, and free from damage caused by broken shells, and free from serious damage caused by discoloration, perforated shells, adhering hulls or other means. The kernels are well dried, free from decay, dark discoloration, rancidity, and free from damage caused by mold, shriveling, insects or other means. (See § 51.2954.)


(a) Kernel color may be specified in connection with this grade in terms of “light amber” or “light” from the USDA Walnut Color Chart or in terms of “red” color. The color classifications in the USDA Walnut Color Chart shall not apply to “red” color. Furthermore, “red” color shall not be mixed with “extra light,” “light,” “light amber,” or “amber” colors. When kernel color is based on the color classifications from the USDA Walnut Color Chart, there is no requirement in this grade for the percentage of walnuts having kernels which are “light amber” or “light.” However, the percentage, by count, of nuts with kernels not darker than “light amber” which are free from grade defects and/or the percentage with kernels not darker than “light” which are free from grade defects, may be specified in accordance with the facts. (See § 51.2954.)


(b) Size shall be specified in connection with the grade. (See § 51.2952.)



---

[N] [29 FR 12865, Sept. 12, 1964. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981, as amended at 82 FR 39657, Aug. 22, 2017]




