# ยง 7.4   Grand Canyon National Park.

(a) *Commercial passenger-carrying motor vehicles.* The prohibition against the commercial transportation of passengers by motor vehicles to Grand Canyon National Park contained in ยง 5.4 of this chapter shall be subject to the following exception: Motor vehicles operated on a general, infrequent, and nonscheduled tour on which the visit to the park is an incident to such tour, carrying only round-trip passengers traveling from the point of origin of the tour, will be accorded admission to the park. 


(b) *Colorado whitewater boat trips.* The following regulations shall apply to all persons using the waters of, or Federally owned land administered by the National Park Service, along the Colorado River within Grand Canyon National Park, upstream from Diamond Creek at approximately river mile 226: 


(1) No person shall operate a vessel engaging in predominantly upstream travel or having a total horsepower in excess of 55. 


(2) U.S. Coast Guard approved life preservers must be worn by every person while on the river or while lining or portaging near rough water. One extra preserver must be carried for each ten (10) persons. 


(3) No person shall conduct, lead, or guide a river trip unless such person possesses a permit issued by the Superintendent, Grand Canyon National Park. The National Park Service reserves the right to limit the number of such permits issued, or the number of persons traveling on trips authorized by such permits when, in the opinion of the National Park Service, such limitations are necessary in the interest of public safety or protection of the ecological and environmental values of the area. 


(i) The Superintendent shall issue a permit upon a determination that the person leading, guiding, or conducting a river trip is experienced in running rivers in white water navigation of similar difficulty, and possesses appropriate equipment, which is identified in the terms and conditions of the permit. 


(ii) No person shall conduct, lead, guide, or outfit a commercial river trip without first securing the above permit and possessing an additional permit authorizing the conduct of a commercial or business activity in the park. 


(iii) An operation is commercial if any fee, charge or other compensation is collected for conducting, leading, guiding, or outfitting a river trip. A river trip is not commercial if there is a bona fide sharing of actual expenses. 


(4) All human waste will be taken out of the Canyon and deposited in established receptacles, or will be disposed of by such means as is determined by the Superintendent. 


(5) No person shall take a dog, cat, or other pet on a river trip. 


(6) The kindling of a fire is permitted only on beaches. The fire must be completely extinguished only with water before abandoning the area. 


(7) Picnicking is permitted on beach areas along the Colorado River. 


(8) Swimming and bathing are permitted except in locations immediately above rapids, eddies and riffles or near rough water. 


(9) Possession of a permit to conduct, guide, outfit, or lead a river trip also authorizes camping along the Colorado River by persons in the river trip party, except on lands within the Hualapai Indian Reservation which are administered by the Hualapai Tribal Council; *Provided, however,* That no person shall camp at Red Wall Cavern, Elves Chasm, the mouth of Havasu Creek, or along the Colorado River bank between the mouth of the Paria River and the Navajo Bridge. 


(10) All persons issued a river trip permit shall comply with all the terms and conditions of the permit.


(c) *Immobilized and legally inoperative vehicles.* (1) An immobilized vehicle is a motor vehicle which is not capable of moving under its own power due to equipment malfunction or deficiency. This term shall also include trailers whose wheels have been removed or which, for other reasons, cannot be immediately towed from their location, excluding trailers being used as residences which are occupying sites designated for this purpose by the Superintendent. A legally inoperative vehicle is a motor vehicle capable of movement under its own power, but not licensed to legally operate on roads. 


(2) Leaving, storing, or placing upon federally owned lands within the park any immobilized or legally inoperative vehicle for a period exceeding 30 days is prohibited, except under the terms of a permit issued by the Superintendent. 


(3) A revocable permit for an immobilized or legally inoperative vehicle may be issued without fee by the Superintendent for a specific period of time, upon a finding that the issuance of such a permit will not interfere with park management or impair park resources. 


(i) Any permit issued will be valid for the period stated on the permit, unless otherwise revoked or terminated by the Superintendent, and will state the name and address of the owner, the description of the vehicle, and the exact location where it may be left, stored or placed. 


(ii) The permittee will affix the permit securely and conspicuously to the vehicle. 


(iii) The permit shall be nontransferable. 


(iv) Any person issued a permit shall comply with all terms and conditions of the permit. Failure to do so will constitute cause for the Superintendent to terminate the permit at any time. 


(v) A permit may be revoked at any time for the convenience of the National Park Service or upon a finding that continued authorization under the permit would interfere with park management or impair park resources. 


(4) An immobilized or legally inoperative vehicle left in excess of 30 days without a permit will be removed at the owner's expense. 


(5) An immobilized or legally inoperative vehicle constituting a safety hazard, causing an obstruction to roads or trails, or interfering with maintenance operations will be removed immediately at the owner's expense. Such interference or impairment may include, but shall not be limited to, the creation of a safety hazard, traffic congestion, visual pollution, or fuel and lubricant drip pollution. 


(6) The Superintendent shall have the right of inspection at all reasonable times to ensure compliance with the requirements of this paragraph.



---

[N] [34 FR 14212, Sept. 10, 1969, as amended at 36 FR 23293, Dec. 8, 1971; 42 FR 25857, May 20, 1977; 43 FR 1793, Jan. 12, 1978; 52 FR 10685, Apr. 2, 1987] 




