# § 1915.112   Ropes, chains and slings.

The provisions of this section shall apply to ship repairing, shipbuilding and shipbreaking.


(a) *Manila rope and manila-rope slings.* Employers must ensure that manila rope and manila-rope slings:


(1) Have permanently affixed and legible identification markings as prescribed by the manufacturer that indicate the recommended safe working load for the type(s) of hitch(es) used, the angle upon which it is based, and the number of legs if more than one;


(2) Not be loaded in excess of its recommended safe working load as prescribed on the identification markings by the manufacturer; and


(3) Not be used without affixed and legible identification markings as required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section.


(b) *Wire rope and wire-rope slings.* (1) Employers must ensure that wire rope and wire-rope slings:


(i) Have permanently affixed and legible identification markings as prescribed by the manufacturer that indicate the recommended safe working load for the type(s) of hitch(es) used, the angle upon which it is based, and the number of legs if more than one;


(ii) Not be loaded in excess of its recommended safe working load as prescribed on the identification markings by the manufacturer; and


(iii) Not be used without affixed and legible identification markings as required by paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.


(2) Protruding ends of strands in splices on slings and bridles shall be covered or blunted.


(3) When U-bolt wire rope clips are used to form eyes, employers must use Table G-1 in § 1915.118 to determine the number and spacing of clips. Employers must apply the U-bolt so that the “U” section is in contact with the dead end of the rope.


(4) Wire rope shall not be secured by knots.


(c) *Chain and chain slings.* (1) Employers must ensure that chain and chain slings:


(i) Have permanently affixed and legible identification markings as prescribed by the manufacturer that indicate the recommended safe working load for the type(s) of hitch(es) used, the angle upon which it is based, and the number of legs if more than one;


(ii) Not be loaded in excess of its recommended safe working load as prescribed on the identification markings by the manufacturer; and


(iii) Not be used without affixed and legible identification markings as required by paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section.


(2) All sling chains, including end fastenings, shall be given a visual inspection before being used on the job. A thorough inspection of all chains in use shall be made every 3 months. Each chain shall bear an indication of the month in which it was thoroughly inspected. The thorough inspection shall include inspection for wear, defective welds, deformation and increase in length or stretch.


(3) Employers must note interlink wear, not accompanied by stretch in excess of 5 percent, and remove the chain from service when maximum allowable wear at any point of link, as indicated in Table G-2 in § 1915.118, has been reached.


(4) Chain slings shall be removed from service when, due to stretch, the increase in length of a measured section exceeds five (5) percent; when a link is bent, twisted or otherwise damaged; or when raised scarfs or defective welds appear.


(5) All repairs to chains shall be made under qualified supervision. Links or portions of the chain found to be defective as described in paragraph (c)(4) of this section shall be replaced by links having proper dimensions and made of material similar to that of the chain. Before repaired chains are returned to service, they shall be proof tested to the proof test load recommended by the manufacturer.


(6) Wrought iron chains in constant use shall be annealed or normalized at intervals not exceeding six months when recommended by the manufacturer. The chain manufacturer shall be consulted for recommended procedures for annealing or normalizing. Alloy chains shall never be annealed.


(7) A load shall not be lifted with a chain having a kink or knot in it. A chain shall not be shortened by bolting, wiring or knotting.



---

[N] [47 FR 16986, Apr. 20, 1982, as amended at 67 FR 44543, July 3, 2002; 76 FR 33609, June 8, 2011]




