# ยง 3.1   Classes of persons who may noncompetitively acquire status.

(a) Upon recommendation by the agency concerned, and subject to such noncompetitive examination, time limits, or other requirements as OPM may prescribe the following classes of persons may acquire a competitive status without competitive examination:


(1) A person holding a permanent position when it is placed in the competitive service by statute or executive order or is otherwise made subject to competitive examination.


(2) A disabled veteran who, in a manner satisfactory to OPM, has completed a course of training in the executive branch of the Government prescribed by the Administrator of Veterans' Affairs in accordance with the act of March 24, 1943 (57 Stat. 43).


(3) An employee who has served at least two years in the immediate office of the President or on the White House Staff and who is transferred to a competitive position at the request of an agency.


(4) An employee who was serving when his name was reached for certification on a civil service register appropriate for the position in which he was serving: *Provided,* That the recommendation for competitive status is made prior to expiration of the register on which his name appears or is made during a period of continuous service since his name was reached: *Provided further,* That the register was being used for appointments conferring competitive status at the time his name was reached.


(b) Upon recommendation by the employing agency, and subject to such requirements as the Office of Personnel Management may prescribe, the following classes of handicapped employees may acquire competitive status without competitive examination:


(1) A severely physically handicapped employee who completes at least two years of satisfactory service in a position excepted from the competitive service.


(2) A mentally retarded employee who completes at least two years of satisfactory service in a position excepted from the competitive service.


(3) An employee with a psychiatric disability who completes at least 2 years of satisfactory service in a position excepted from the competitive service.



---

[N] [28 FR 10023, Sept. 14, 1963, as amended by E.O. 12125, 3 CFR, 1979 Comp., p. 375; 65 FR 41868, July 7, 2000]




