# § 165.759   Security Zones; Ports of Jacksonville, Fernandina, and Canaveral, Florida.

(a) *Regulated area.* Moving security zones are established 100 yards around all tank vessels, cruise ships, and military pre-positioned ships during transits entering or departing the ports of Jacksonville, Fernandina, and Canaveral, Florida. These moving security zones are activated when the subject vessels pass the St. Johns River Sea Buoy, at approximate position 30 deg. 23′ 35″ N, 81 deg, 19′ 08″ West, when entering the port of Jacksonville, or pass Port Canaveral Channel Entrance Buoys # 3 or # 4, at respective approximate positions 28 deg. 22.7 N, 80 deg 31.8 W, and 28 deg. 23.7 N, 80 deg. 29.2 W, when entering Port Canaveral. Fixed security zones are established 100 yards around all tank vessels, cruise ships, and military pre-positioned ships docked in the Ports of Jacksonville, Fernandina, and Canaveral, Florida. 


(b) *Regulations.* In accordance with the general regulations § 165.33 of this part, entry into these zones is prohibited except as authorized by the Captain of the Port, or a Coast Guard commissioned, warrant, or petty officer designated by him. The Captain of the Port will notify the public of any changes in the status of this zone by Marine Safety Radio Broadcast on VHF Marine Band Radio, Channel 22 (157.1 MHz). 


(c) *Definition.* As used in this section: cruise ship means a passenger vessel, except for a ferry, greater than 100 feet in length that is authorized to carry more than 12 passengers for hire. 


(d) *Authority.* In addition to 46 U.S.C. 70034 and 46 U.S.C. 70051, the authority for this section includes 46 U.S.C. 70116.



---

[N] [COTP Jacksonville 02-066, 68 FR 3186, Jan. 23, 2003]




