# ยง 242.91   Eligibility of refinancing transactions.

(a) *Refinancing an FHA-insured mortgage.* A mortgage given to refinance an existing insured mortgage under Section 241 or Section 242 of the Act covering a hospital may be insured under this subpart pursuant to Section 223(a)(7) of the Act. Insurance of the new, refinancing mortgage shall be subject to the following limitations:


(1) *Principal amount.* The principal amount of the refinancing mortgage shall not exceed the lesser of:


(i) The original principal amount of the existing insured mortgage; or


(ii) The unpaid principal amount of the existing insured mortgage, to which may be added loan closing charges associated with the refinancing mortgage, and costs, as determined by HUD, of improvements, upgrading, or additions required to be made to the property.


(2) *Debt service rate.* The monthly debt service payment for the refinancing mortgage may not exceed the debt service payment charged for the existing mortgage.


(3) *Mortgage term.* The term of the new mortgage shall not exceed the unexpired term of the existing mortgage, except that the new mortgage may have a term of not more than 12 years in excess of the unexpired term of the existing mortgage in any case in which HUD determines that the insurance of the mortgage for an additional term will inure to the benefit of the FHA Insurance Fund, taking into consideration the outstanding insurance liability under the existing insured mortgage, and the remaining economic life of the property.


(4) *Minimum loan amount.* The mortgagee may not require a minimum principal amount to be outstanding on the loan secured by the existing mortgage.


(b) *Refinancing capital debt not insured by FHA.* A mortgage given to refinance the capital debt of an existing hospital that is not insured under section 241 or section 242 of the Act may be insured under this subpart pursuant to Section 223(f) of the National Housing Act. The mortgage may be executed in connection with the purchase or refinancing of an existing hospital without substantial rehabilitation. A mortgage insured pursuant to this subpart shall meet all other requirements of this part. The FHA Commissioner shall prescribe such terms and conditions as the FHA Commissioner deems necessary to assure that:


(1) The refinancing is employed to lower the monthly debt service costs (taking into account any fees or charges connected with such refinancing) of such existing hospital;


(2) The proceeds of any refinancing will be employed only to retire the existing capital debt; pay for limited rehabilitation totaling less than 20 percent of the mortgage amount; and pay the necessary cost of refinancing on such existing hospital;


(3) Such existing hospital is economically viable; and


(4) The applicable requirements of Section 242 for certificates, studies, and statements have been met.



---

[N] [78 FR 8344, Feb. 5, 2013]




