# ยง 27.1413   Relocation Coordinator.

(a) *Search committee.* If eligible space station operators elect to receive accelerated relocation payments no later than May 29, 2020, so that a supermajority (80%) of accelerated relocation payments are accepted, each such electing eligible space station operator shall be eligible to appoint one member to a search committee that will seek proposals for a third-party with technical experience in understanding and working on earth stations to serve as a Relocation Coordinator and to manage the migration and filtering of incumbent earth stations of eligible space station operators that decline accelerated relocation payment.


(1) The search committee should proceed by consensus; however, if a vote on selection of a Relocation Coordinator is required, it shall be by a supermajority (80%).


(i) The search committee shall notify the Commission of its choice of Relocation Coordinator.


(ii) The Wireless Telecommunications Bureau shall issue a Public Notice inviting comment on whether the entity selected satisfies the criteria established in paragraph (b) of this section and issue a final order announcing whether the criteria has been satisfied;


(iii) Should the Wireless Telecommunications Bureau be unable to find the criteria have been satisfied, the selection process will start over and the search committee will submit a new proposed entity.


(2) If eligible space station operators select a Relocation Coordinator, they shall be responsible for paying its costs.


(3) In the event that the search committee fails to select a Relocation Coordinator and to notify the Commission by July 31, 2020, or in the case that at least 80% of accelerated relocation payments are not accepted (and thus accelerated relocation is not triggered):


(i) The search committee will be dissolved without further action by the Commission.


(ii) The Commission will initiate a procurement of a Relocation Coordinator to facilitate the transition. Specifically, the Office of the Managing Director will initiate the procurement, and the Wireless Telecommunications Bureau will take all other necessary actions to meet the accelerated relocation deadlines (to the extent applicable to any given operator) and the relocation deadline.


(iii) In the case that the Wireless Telecommunications Bureau selects the Relocation Coordinator, overlay licensees will, collectively, pay for the services of the Relocation Coordinator and staff. The Relocation Coordinator shall submit its own reasonable costs to the Relocation Clearinghouse, who will then collect payments from overlay licensees. It shall also provide additional financial information as requested by the Bureau to satisfy the Commission's oversight responsibilities and/or agency specific/government-wide reporting obligations.


(b) *Relocation Coordinator criteria.* The Relocation Coordinator must be able to demonstrate that it has the requisite expertise to perform the duties required, which will include:


(1) Coordinating the schedule for clearing the band;


(2) Performing engineering analysis, as necessary to determine necessary earth station migration actions;


(3) Assigning obligations, as necessary, for earth station migrations and filtering;


(4) Coordinating with overlay licensees throughout the transition process;


(5) Assessing the completion of the transition in each PEA and determining overlay licensees' ability to commence operations; and


(6) Mediating scheduling disputes.


(c) *Relocation Coordinator duties.* The Relocation Coordinator shall:


(1) Establish a timeline and take actions necessary to migrate and filter incumbent earth stations to ensure uninterrupted service during and following the transition.


(2) Review the Transition Plans filed by all eligible space station operators and recommend any changes to those plans to the Commission to the extent needed to ensure a timely transition.


(3) To the extent that incumbent earth stations are not accounted for in eligible space station operators' Transition Plans, the Relocation Coordinator must include those incumbent earth stations in an Earth Station Transition Plan.


(i) May require each associated space station operator to file the information needed for such a plan with the Relocation Coordinator.


(ii) Will describe and recommend the respective responsibility of each party for earth station migration obligations in the Earth Station Transition Plan and assist incumbent earth stations in transitioning including, for example, by installing filters or hiring a third party to install such filters to the extent necessary.


(4) Coordinate its operations with overlay licensees.


(5) Be responsible for receiving notice from earth station operators or other satellite customers of any disputes related to comparability of facilities, workmanship, or preservation of service during the transition and shall subsequently notify the Wireless Telecommunications Bureau of the dispute and provide recommendations for resolution.


(6) Must make real time disclosures of the content and timing of and the parties to communications, if any, from or to applicants to participate in the competitive bidding, as defined by ยง 1.2105(c)(5)(i) of this chapter whenever the prohibition in ยง 1.2105(c) of this chapter applies to competitive bidding for licenses in the 3.7 GHz Service.


(7) Incumbent space station operators must cooperate in good faith with the Relocation Coordinator throughout the transition.


(d) *Status reports.* On a quarterly basis, beginning December 31, 2020, the Relocation Coordinator must provide a report on the overall status of clearing efforts.


(e) *Document requests.* The Wireless Telecommunications Bureau, in consultation with the Office of Managing Director, may request any documentation from the Relocation Coordinator necessary to provide guidance or carry out oversight.




