# § 60.111b   Definitions.

Terms used in this subpart are defined in the Act, in subpart A of this part, or in this subpart as follows:


*Bulk gasoline plant* means any gasoline distribution facility that has a gasoline throughput less than or equal to 75,700 liters per day. Gasoline throughput shall be the maximum calculated design throughput as may be limited by compliance with an enforceable condition under Federal requirement or Federal, State or local law, and discoverable by the Administrator and any other person.


*Condensate* means hydrocarbon liquid separated from natural gas that condenses due to changes in the temperature or pressure, or both, and remains liquid at standard conditions.


*Custody transfer* means the transfer of produced petroleum and/or condensate, after processing and/or treatment in the producing operations, from storage vessels or automatic transfer facilities to pipelines or any other forms of transportation.


*Fill* means the introduction of VOL into a storage vessel but not necessarily to complete capacity.


*Gasoline service station* means any site where gasoline is dispensed to motor vehicle fuel tanks from stationary storage tanks.


*Maximum true vapor pressure* means the equilibrium partial pressure exerted by the volatile organic compounds (as defined in 40 CFR 51.100) in the stored VOL at the temperature equal to the highest calendar-month average of the VOL storage temperature for VOL's stored above or below the ambient temperature or at the local maximum monthly average temperature as reported by the National Weather Service for VOL's stored at the ambient temperature, as determined: 


(1) In accordance with methods described in American Petroleum institute Bulletin 2517, Evaporation Loss From External Floating Roof Tanks, (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17); or


(2) As obtained from standard reference texts; or 


(3) As determined by ASTM D2879-83, 96, or 97 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17);


(4) Any other method approved by the Administrator.


*Petroleum* means the crude oil removed from the earth and the oils derived from tar sands, shale, and coal.


*Petroleum liquids* means petroleum, condensate, and any finished or intermediate products manufactured in a petroleum refinery.


*Process tank* means a tank that is used within a process (including a solvent or raw material recovery process) to collect material discharged from a feedstock storage vessel or equipment within the process before the material is transferred to other equipment within the process, to a product or by-product storage vessel, or to a vessel used to store recovered solvent or raw material. In many process tanks, unit operations such as reactions and blending are conducted. Other process tanks, such as surge control vessels and bottoms receivers, however, may not involve unit operations. 


*Reid vapor pressure* means the absolute vapor pressure of volatile crude oil and volatile nonviscous petroleum liquids except liquified petroleum gases, as determined by ASTM D323-82 or 94 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17).


*Storage vessel* means each tank, reservoir, or container used for the storage of volatile organic liquids but does not include: 


(1) Frames, housing, auxiliary supports, or other components that are not directly involved in the containment of liquids or vapors; 


(2) Subsurface caverns or porous rock reservoirs; or 


(3) Process tanks. 


*Volatile organic liquid (VOL)* means any organic liquid which can emit volatile organic compounds (as defined in 40 CFR 51.100) into the atmosphere. 


*Waste* means any liquid resulting from industrial, commercial, mining or agricultural operations, or from community activities that is discarded or is being accumulated, stored, or physically, chemically, or biologically treated prior to being discarded or recycled.



---

[N] [52 FR 11429, Apr. 8, 1987, as amended at 54 FR 32973, Aug. 11, 1989; 65 FR 61756, Oct. 17, 2000; 68 FR 59333, Oct. 15, 2003]




