# § 165.819   Security Zone; Sabine Bank Channel, Sabine Pass Channel and Sabine-Neches Waterway, TX.

(a) *Location.* (1) The following LNG facility mooring basins are designated as fixed security zones whenever LNG carriers are moored within them:


(i) *Golden Pass LNG, Sabine TX:* All mooring basin waters south of a line connecting the following points—beginning at 29°45′58″ N, 093°55′40″ W; then east to a point at 29°45′52.8″ N, 093°55′20.8″ W; then bearing 120° T to the shoreline at 29°45′50″ N, 093°55′17″ W.


(ii) *Sabine Pass LNG, Cameron Parish, LA:* (A) All mooring basin waters shoreward of a line connecting the following points—beginning at the shoreline in position 29°44′34.7″ N, 093°52′29″ W; then to a point at 29°44′31.4″ N, 093°52′26.4″ W; then to a point at 29°44′25.2″ N, 093°52′14.6″ W; then to the shoreline at 29°44′24.4″ N, 093°52′11.4″ W (WGS84).


(B) All mooring basin waters shoreward of a line connecting the following points—beginning at the shoreline in position 29°44′23.4″ N, 093°52′10.3″ W; then to a point at 29°44′22.3″ N, 093°52′9.8″ W; then to a point at 29°44′18″ N, 093°52′3.6″ W; then to the shoreline at 29°44′17.4″ N, 093°52′2.3″ W (WGS84).


(2) The following areas are designated as moving security zones: All waters of the Captain of the Port, Port Arthur Zone commencing at U.S. territorial waters and extending from the surface to the bottom, channel edge to channel edge on the Sabine Bank and Sabine Pass Channels and shoreline to shoreline on the Sabine-Neches Waterway, 2 miles ahead and 1 mile astern of certain designated vessels while in transit within in the Captain of the Port, Port Arthur zone. Mariners would be notified of designated vessels by Broadcast Notice to Mariners and the presence of escort vessels displaying flashing blue law enforcement lights.


(b) *Regulations.* (1) Entry into or remaining in a fixed security zone described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section is prohibited for all vessels except:


(i) Commercial vessels operating at waterfront facilities within these zones;


(ii) Commercial vessels transiting directly to or from waterfront facilities within these zones;


(iii) Vessels providing direct operational or logistical support to commercial vessels within these zones;


(iv) Vessels operated by the appropriate port authority or by facilities located within these zones; and


(v) Vessels operated by Federal, State, county, or municipal law enforcement agencies.


(2) Entry into or remaining in a moving security zone described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section is prohibited for all vessels except:


(i) Moored vessels or vessels anchored in a designated anchorage area. A moored or an anchored vessel in a security zone described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section must remain moored or anchored unless it obtains permission from the Captain of the Port to do otherwise;


(ii) Commercial vessels operating at waterfront facilities located within the zone;


(iii) Vessels providing direct operational support to commercial vessels within a moving security zone;


(iv) Vessels operated by Federal, State, county, or municipal law enforcement agencies.


(3) Meeting, crossing or overtaking situations are not permitted within the security zone described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section unless specifically authorized by the Captain of the Port.


(4) Other persons or vessels requiring entry into security zones described in this section must request permission from the Captain of the Port, Port Arthur or designated representative.


(5) To request permission to enter a security zone described in this section, contact Vessel Traffic Service Port Arthur on VHF Channel 01A or 

65A; by telephone at (409) 719-5070; by fax at (409) 719-5090; or contact the Captain of the Port's designated on-scene patrol vessel on VHF channel 13 or 16.


(6) All persons and vessels within a security zone described in this section must comply with the instructions of the Captain of the Port, Port Arthur, designated on-scene U.S. Coast Guard patrol personnel or other designated representatives. Designated on-scene U.S. Coast Guard patrol personnel include commissioned, warrant, and petty officers of the U.S. Coast Guard. Designated representatives include Federal, State, local and municipal law enforcement agencies.



---

[N] [USCG-2009-0316, 75 FR 65235, Oct. 22, 2010, as amended at 76 FR 1521, Jan. 11, 2011; USCG-2021-0120, 86 FR 43091, Aug. 6, 2021]




