# ยง 354.12   Hearing.

(a) *Scheduling of hearing.* The presiding official will schedule the hearing at a reasonable time, date, and place, which will be in Washington, DC, unless the presiding official determines otherwise based upon good cause shown that another location would better serve the interests of justice. In setting the date, the presiding official will give due regard to the need for the parties adequately to prepare for the hearing and the importance of expeditiously resolving the matter. 


(b) *Joinder or consolidation.* The presiding official may order joinder or consolidation if sanctions are proposed against more than one party or if violations of more than one administrative protective order are alleged if to do so would expedite processing of the cases and not adversely affect the interests of the parties. 


(c) *Hearing procedures.* Hearings will be conducted in a fair and impartial manner by the presiding official, who may limit attendance at any hearing or portion thereof if necessary or advisable in order to protect business proprietary information from improper disclosure. The rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law shall not apply, and all evidentiary material the presiding official determines to be relevant and material to the proceeding and not unduly repetitious may be received into evidence and given appropriate weight. The presiding official may make such orders and determinations regarding the admissibility of evidence, conduct of examination and cross-examination, and similar matters as are necessary or appropriate to ensure orderliness in the proceedings. The presiding official will ensure that a record of the hearing be taken by reporter or by electronic recording, and will order such part of the record to be sealed as is necessary to protect business proprietary information. 


(d) *Rights of parties.* At a hearing each party shall have the right to: 


(1) Introduce and examine witnesses and submit physical evidence, 


(2) Confront and cross-examine adverse witnesses, 


(3) Present oral argument, and 


(4) Receive a transcript or recording of the proceedings, upon request, subject to the presiding official's orders regarding sealing the record. 


(e) *Representation.* Each charged or affected party has a right to represent himself or herself or to retain private counsel for that purpose. The Chief Counsel will represent the Department, unless the General Counsel determines otherwise. The presiding official may disallow a representative if such representation constitutes a conflict of interest or is otherwise not in the interests of justice and may debar a representative for contumacious conduct relating to the proceedings. 


(f) *Ex parte communications.* The parties and their representatives may not make any *ex parte* communications to the presiding official concerning the merits of the allegations or any matters at issue, except as provided in ยง 354.8 regarding emergency interim sanctions. 




