# § 14.4   What terms do I have to understand?

In addition to definitions contained in part 10 of this subchapter, in this part:


*Accompanying personal baggage* means all hand-carried items and all checked baggage of a person entering into or departing from the United States.


*Accredited scientist* means any individual associated with, employed by, or under contract to and accredited by an accredited scientific institution for the purpose of conducting biological or medical research, and whose research activities are approved and sponsored by the scientific institution granting accreditation.


*Accredited scientific institutions* means any public museum, public zoological park, accredited institution of higher education, accredited member of the American Zoo and Aquarium Association, accredited member of the American Association of Systematic Collections, or any State or Federal government agency that conducts biological or medical research.


*Commercial* means related to the offering for sale or resale, purchase, trade, barter, or the actual or intended transfer in the pursuit of gain or profit, of any item of wildlife and includes the use of any wildlife article as an exhibit for the purpose of soliciting sales, without regard to quantity or weight. There is a presumption that eight or more similar unused items are for commercial use. The Service or the importer/exporter/owner may rebut this presumption based upon the particular facts and circumstances of each case.


*Domesticated animals* includes, but is not limited to, the following domesticated animals that are exempted from the requirements of this subchapter B (except for species obtained from wild populations).


*Mammals:* Alpaca—*Lama alpaca;* Camel—*Camelus dromedarius;* Camel (Boghdi)—*Camelus bactrianus;* Cat (domestic)—*Felis domesticus;* Cattle—*Bos taurus;* Dog (domestic)—*Canis familiaris;* European rabbit—*Ortyctolagus cuniculus;* Ferret (domestic)—*Mustela putorius;* Goat—*Capra hircus;* Horse—*Equus caballus;* Llama—*Lama glama;* Pig—*Sus scrofa;* Sheep—*Ovis aries;* Water buffalo—*Bubalus bubalus;* White lab mice—*Mus musculus;* White lab rate—*Rattus norvegicus.*

*Fish* (For export purposes only): Carp (koi)—*Cyprinus carpio;* Goldfish—*Carassius auratus.*

*Birds:* Chicken—*Gallus domesticus;* Ducks & geese—domesticated varieties; Guinea fowl—*Numida meleagris;* Peafowl—*Pavo cristatus;* Pigeons (domesticated)—*Columba livia domestrica;* Turkey—*Meleagris gallopavo;* Domesticated or Barnyard Mallards include: Pekin; Aylesbury; Bouen; Cayuga; Gray Call; White Call; East Indian; Crested; Swedish; Buff Orpington; Indian Runner; Campbell; Duclair; Merchtem; Termonde; Magpie; Chinese; Khaki Campbell.


*Insects:* Crickets, mealworms, honeybees (not to include Africanized varieties), and similar insects that are routinely farm raised.


*Other Invertebrates:* Earthworms and similar invertebrates that are routinely farm raised.


*Export* means to depart from, to send from, to ship from, or to carry out of, or attempt to depart from, to send from, to ship from, or to carry out of, or to consign to a carrier in any place subject to the jurisdiction of the United States with an intended destination of any place not subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, whether or not such departure, sending, or carrying, or shipping constitutes an exportation within the meaning of the Custom laws of the United States. When a passenger leaving the jurisdiction of the United States enters the designated international area of embarkation of an airport, all accompanying personal hand-carried items and checked baggage will be regarded as exports.


*Import* means to land on, bring into, or introduce into, or attempt to land on, bring into, or introduce into any place subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, whether or not such landing, bringing, or introduction constitutes an importation within the meaning of the tariff laws of the United States.


*We* means Fish and Wildlife Service or Service.


*You* means licensee, or importer/exporter of record.



---

[N] [61 FR 31868, June 21, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 23025, Apr. 29, 1999]




