# ยง 63.9290   What parts of my plant does this subpart cover?

This subpart applies to each new, reconstructed, or existing affected source. 


(a) *Affected source.* An affected source is the collection of all equipment and activities associated with engine test cells/stands used for testing uninstalled stationary or uninstalled mobile (motive) engines located at a major source of HAP emissions. 


(1) *Existing affected source.* An affected source is existing if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source on or before May 14, 2002. A change in ownership of an existing affected source does not make that affected source a new or reconstructed affected source. 


(2) *New affected source.* An affected source is new if you commenced construction of the affected source after May 14, 2002. 


(3) *Reconstructed affected source.* An affected source is reconstructed if you meet the definition of reconstruction in ยง 63.2 of subpart A of this part and reconstruction is commenced after May 14, 2002. Changes made to an existing affected source primarily for the purpose of complying with revisions to engine testing requirements under 40 CFR parts 80, 86, 89, 90, 91, or 92 are not considered a modification or reconstruction. In addition, passive measurement and control instrumentation and electronics are not included as part of any affected source reconstruction evaluation. 


(b) Existing affected sources do not have to meet the requirements of this subpart and of subpart A of this part. 


(c) Any portion of a new or reconstructed affected source located at a major source that is used exclusively for testing internal combustion engines with rated power of less than 25 horsepower (hp) (19 kilowatts(kW)) does not have to meet the requirements of this subpart and of subpart A of this part except for the initial notification requirements of ยง 63.9345(b). 


(d) Any portion of a new or reconstructed affected source located at a major source that meets any of the criteria specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section does not have to meet the requirements of this subpart and of subpart A of this part. 


(1) Any portion of the affected source used exclusively for testing combustion turbine engines. 


(2) Any portion of the affected source used exclusively for testing rocket engines. 


(3) Any portion of the affected source used in research and teaching activities at facilities that are not engaged in the development of engines or engine test services for commercial purposes. 


(4) Any portion of the affected source operated to test or evaluate fuels (such as knock engines), transmissions, or electronics. 




