# ยง 155.50   Initiate a pesticide's registration review.

The Agency will initiate a pesticide's registration review by establishing a docket for each registration review case, except for cases covered under ยง 155.46, and opening it for public review.


(a) *Contents of the registration review case docket.* The Agency will place in this docket information that will assist the public in understanding the types of information and issues that the Agency may consider in the course of the registration review. The Agency may include information from its files including, but not limited to, the following information:


(1) An overview of registration review case status;


(2) A list of current registrations and registrants, any _Federal Register_ notices regarding pending registration actions, and current or pending tolerances;


(3) Risk assessment documents;


(4) Bibliographies concerning current registrations;


(5) Summaries of incident data; and


(6) Any other pertinent data or information.


(b) *Public review of the registration review case docket.* The Agency will publish a notice in the _Federal Register_ announcing the availability for public review of the information described in paragraph (a) of this section and establishing a comment period of at least 60 days. During this comment period, interested persons may identify any additional information they believe the Agency should consider in the course of the registration review.


(c) *Submission of data and other information during the comment period.* The Agency may identify, either in the notice published under paragraph (b) of this section, or at any other time, data or information that it does not have but which may be useful, if available, for consideration in the registration review. Any person may submit data or information in response to such identification. In order to be considered during a pesticide's registration review, the submitted data or information must meet the requirements listed below.


(1) In order to ensure that the Agency will consider data or information in the conduct of a registration review, interested persons must submit the data or information during the comment period established in the notice described in paragraph (b) of this section. The Agency may, at its discretion, consider data or information submitted at a later date.


(2) The data or information must be presented in a legible and useable form. For example, an English translation must accompany any material that is not in English and a written transcript must accompany any information submitted as an audiographic or videographic record. Written material may be submitted in paper or electronic form.


(3) Submitters must clearly identify the source of any submitted data or information.


(4) Submitters may request the Agency to reconsider data or information that the Agency rejected in a previous review. However, submitters must explain why they believe the Agency should reconsider the data or information in the pesticide's registration review.


(d) For the purposes of this subpart, the provisions of subpart B do not apply.




