# § 721.3840   Tetraglycidalamines (generic name).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substances identified generically as tetraglycidalamines (PMN P-86-500 and P-86-502) are subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. 


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Protection in the workplace.* Requirements as specified in § 721.63 (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(5)(iv), (a)(5)(v), (a)(5) (vi), (a)(6)(i), (a)(5)(xi) and (a)(6)(ii), (b) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), and (c). The respirator required under § 721.63 (a)(5)(vi) is applicable only when the PMN substance is in the form of a dust. The respirator required under § 721.63 (a)(5)(xi) is applicable only when the PMN substance is in the form of a mist.


(ii) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72 (a), (b)(2), (c), (d), (e) (concentration set at 0.1 percent), (f), (g)(1)(vii), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iv), (g)(2)(v), and (g)(5).


(iii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80 (o).


(iv) *Disposal.* Requirements as specified in § 721.85 (a)(1), (a)(2), (b)(1), (b)(2) and (c)(1), (c)(2).


(v) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90 (a)(2)(vi), (b)(2)(vi) and (c)(2)(vi).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* The following recordkeeping requirements are applicable to manufacturers, importers, and processors of this substance, as specified in § 721.125 (a) through (k).


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this significant new use rule.



---

[N] [55 FR 26101, June 26, 1990. Redesignated at 58 FR 29947, May 24, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 34204, June 23, 1993]




