# § 170.19   CMMC scoping.

(a) *Scoping requirement.* (1) The CMMC Assessment Scope must be specified prior to assessment in accordance with the requirements of this section. The CMMC Assessment Scope is the set of all assets in the OSA's environment that will be assessed against CMMC security requirements.


(2) The requirements for defining the CMMC Assessment Scope for CMMC Levels 1, 2, and 3 are set forth in this section. Additional guidance regarding scoping can be found in the guidance documents listed in paragraphs (e) through (g) of appendix A to this part.


(b) *CMMC Level 1 scoping.* Prior to performing a Level 1 self-assessment, the OSA must specify the CMMC Assessment Scope.


(1) *Assets in scope for Level 1 self-assessment.* OSA information systems which process, store, or transmit FCI are in scope for CMMC Level 1 and must be self-assessed against applicable CMMC security requirements.


(2) *Assets not in scope for Level 1 self-assessment*—(i) *Out-of-Scope Assets.* OSA information systems which do not process, store, or transmit FCI are outside the scope for CMMC Level 1. An endpoint hosting a VDI client configured to not allow any processing, storage, or transmission of FCI beyond the Keyboard/Video/Mouse sent to the VDI client is considered out-of-scope. There are no documentation requirements for out-of-scope assets.


(ii) *Specialized Assets.* Specialized Assets are those assets that can process, store, or transmit FCI but are unable to be fully secured, including: Internet of Things (IoT) devices, Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) devices, Operational Technology (OT), Government Furnished Equipment (GFE), Restricted Information Systems, and Test Equipment. Specialized Assets are not part of the Level 1 CMMC Assessment Scope and are not assessed against CMMC security requirements.


(3) *Level 1 self-assessment scoping considerations.* To scope a Level 1 self-assessment, OSAs should consider the people, technology, facilities, and External Service Providers (ESP) within its environment that process, store, or transmit FCI.


(c) *CMMC Level 2 Scoping.* Prior to performing a Level 2 self-assessment or Level 2 certification assessment, the OSA must specify the CMMC Assessment Scope.


(1) The CMMC Assessment Scope for CMMC Level 2 is based on the specification of asset categories and their respective requirements as defined in table 3 to this paragraph (c)(1). Additional information is available in the guidance document listed in paragraph (f) of appendix A to this part.


(2)(i) Table 4 to this paragraph (c)(2)(i) defines the requirements to be met when utilizing an External Service Provider (ESP). The OSA must consider whether the ESP is a Cloud Service Provider (CSP) and whether the ESP processes, stores, or transmits CUI and/or Security Protection Data (SPD).


(ii) The use of an ESP, its relationship to the OSA, and the services provided need to be documented in the OSA's SSP and described in the ESP's service description and customer responsibility matrix (CRM), which describes the responsibilities of the OSA and ESP with respect to the services provided. Note that the ESP may voluntarily undergo a CMMC certification assessment to reduce the ESP's effort required during the OSA's assessment. The minimum assessment type for the ESP is dictated by the OSA's DoD contract requirement.


(d) *CMMC Level 3 scoping.* Prior to performing a Level 3 certification assessment, the CMMC Assessment Scope must be specified.


(1) The CMMC Assessment Scope for Level 3 is based on the specification of asset categories and their respective requirements as set forth in table 5 to this paragraph (d)(1). Additional information is available in the guidance document listed in paragraph (g) of appendix A to this part.


(2)(i) Table 6 to this paragraph (d)(2)(i) defines the requirements to be met when utilizing an External Service Provider (ESP). The OSA must consider whether the ESP is a Cloud Service Provider (CSP) and whether the ESP processes, stores, or transmits CUI and/or Security Protection Data (SPD).


(ii) The use of an ESP, its relationship to the OSC, and the services provided need to be documented in the OSC's SSP and described in the ESP's service description and customer responsibility matrix (CRM), which describes the responsibilities of the OSC and ESP with respect to the services provided. Note that the ESP may voluntarily undergo a CMMC certification assessment to reduce the ESP's effort required during the OSA's assessment. The minimum. The minimum assessment type for the ESP is dictated by the OSC's DoD contract requirement.


(e) *Relationship between Level 2 and Level 3 CMMC Assessment Scope.* The Level 3 CMMC Assessment Scope must be equal to or a subset of the Level 2 CMMC Assessment Scope in accordance with § 170.18(a) (*e.g.,* a Level 3 data enclave with greater restrictions and protections within a Level 2 data enclave). Any Level 2 POA&M items must be closed prior to the initiation of the Level 3 certification assessment. DCMA DIBCAC may check any Level 2 security requirement of any in-scope asset. If DCMA DIBCAC identifies that a Level 2 security requirement is NOT MET, the Level 3 assessment process may be paused to allow for remediation, placed on hold, or immediately terminated. For further information regarding scoping of CMMC Level 3 assessments please contact DCMA DIBCAC at *www.dcma.mil/DIBCAC/*.






