# § 1270.1   Definitions.

As used in this part, unless the context otherwise requires or indicates:


*Adverse Claim* means a claim that a claimant has a property interest in a Book-entry consolidated obligation and that it is a violation of the rights of the claimant for another Person to hold, transfer, or deal with the Security.


*Book-entry consolidated obligation* means a consolidated obligation maintained in the book-entry system of the Federal Reserve Banks.


*Consolidated obligation* means any bond, debenture or note on which the Banks are jointly and severally liable and which was issued under section 11 of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1431) and in accordance with any implementing regulations, whether or not such instrument was originally issued jointly by the Banks or by the Federal Housing Finance Board on behalf of the Banks.


*Deposits in banks or trust companies* means:


(1) A deposit in another Bank;


(2) A demand account in a Federal Reserve Bank;


(3) A deposit in, or a sale of Federal funds to:


(i) An insured depository institution, as defined in section 2(9)(A) of the Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1422(9)(A)), that is designated by a Bank's board of directors;


(ii) A trust company that is a member of the Federal Reserve System or insured by the FDIC, and is designated by a Bank's board of directors; or


(iii) A U.S. branch or agency of a foreign bank, as defined in the International Banking Act of 1978, as amended (12 U.S.C. 3101 *et seq.*), that is subject to the supervision of the Federal Reserve Board, and is designated by a Bank's board of directors.


*Entitlement Holder* means a Person or a Bank to whose account an interest in a Book-entry consolidated obligation is credited on the records of a Securities Intermediary.


*Federal Reserve Bank* means a Federal Reserve Bank or branch, acting as fiscal agent for the Office of Finance, unless otherwise indicated.


*Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circular* means the publication issued by each Federal Reserve Bank that sets forth the terms and conditions under which the Federal Reserve Bank maintains Book-entry Securities accounts and transfers Book-entry Securities.


*Federal Reserve Board* means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.


*Funds account* means a reserve and/or clearing account at a Federal Reserve Bank to which debits or credits are posted for transfers against payment, Book-entry Securities transaction fees, or principal and interest payments.


*Non-complying Bank* means a Bank that has failed to provide the liquidity certification as required under § 1270.10(b)(1).


*Office of Finance* means the Office of Finance, a joint office of the Banks established under part 1273 of this chapter and referenced in the Bank Act and the Safety and Soundness Act, including the Office of Finance acting as agent of the Banks in all matters relating to the issuance of Book-entry consolidated obligations and in the performance of all other necessary and proper functions relating to Book-entry consolidated obligations, including the payment of principal and interest due thereon.


*Participant* means a Person or a Bank that maintains a Participant's Securities Account with a Federal Reserve Bank.


*Participant's Securities Account* means an account in the name of a Participant at a Federal Reserve Bank to which Book-entry consolidated obligations held for a Participant are or may be credited.


*Person* means and includes an individual, corporation, company, governmental entity, association, firm, partnership, trust, estate, representative, and any other similar organization, but does not mean or include a Bank, the Director, FHFA, the Office of Finance, the United States, or a Federal Reserve Bank.


*Repurchase agreement* means an agreement in which a Bank sells securities and simultaneously agrees to repurchase those securities or similar securities at an agreed upon price, with or without a stated time for repurchase.


*Revised Article 8* means Uniform Commercial Code, Revised Article 8, Investment Securities (with Conforming and Miscellaneous Amendments to Articles 1, 3, 4, 5, 9, and 10) 1994 Official Text. Copies of this publication are available from the Executive Office of the American Law Institute, 4025 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, PA 19104, and the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws, 676 North St. Clair Street, Suite 1700, Chicago, IL 60611.


*SBIC* means a small business investment company formed pursuant to section 301 of the Small Business Investment Act (15 U.S.C. 681).


*Securities Intermediary* means:


(1) A Person that is registered as a “clearing agency” under the Federal securities laws; a Federal Reserve Bank; any other person that provides clearance or settlement services with respect to a Book-entry consolidated obligation that would require it to register as a clearing agency under the Federal securities laws but for an exclusion or exemption from the registration requirement, if its activities as a clearing corporation, including promulgation of rules, are subject to regulation by a Federal or State governmental authority; or (2) A Person (other than an individual, unless such individual is registered as a broker or dealer under the Federal securities laws), including a bank or broker, that in the ordinary course of its business maintains securities accounts for others and is acting in that capacity.


*Security Entitlement* means the rights and property interest of an Entitlement Holder with respect to a Book-entry consolidated obligation.


*Transfer Message* means an instruction of a Participant to a Federal Reserve Bank to effect a transfer of a Book-entry consolidated obligation, as set forth in Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circulars.



---

[N] [76 FR 18369, Apr. 4, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 2324, Jan. 11, 2013; 78 FR 67009, Nov. 8, 2013]




