# § 1726.304   List of electric program standard contract forms.

(a) *General.* This section contains a list of RUS electric program standard contract forms. Paragraph (c) of this section contains the list of required contract forms, *i.e.,* those forms of contracts that borrowers are required to use by the terms of their RUS loan agreements as implemented by the provisions of this part. Paragraph (d) of this section sets forth the list of guidance contract forms, i.e., those forms of contracts provided as guidance to borrowers in the construction of their systems. See § 1726.302(b) for availability of these forms.


(b) *Issuance date.* Where required by this part to use a standard form of contract in connection with RUS financing, the borrower shall use that form identified by issuance date in the List of Required Contract Forms in paragraph (c) of this section, as most recently published as of the date the borrower issues the bid package to bidders.


(c) List of required contract forms. 


(1) RUS Form 168b, Rev. 2-04, Contractor's Bond. This form is used to obtain a surety bond and is used with RUS Forms 200, 257, 786, 790, and 830. 


(2) RUS Form 168c, Rev. 2-04, Contractor's Bond (less than $1 million). This form is used in lieu of RUS Form 168b to obtain a surety bond when contractor's surety has accepted a Small Business Administration guarantee. 


(3) RUS Form 187, Rev. 2-04, Certificate of Completion, Contract Construction. This form is used for the closeout of RUS Forms 200, 257, 786, and 830. 


(4) RUS Form 198, Rev. 4-04, Equipment Contract. This form is used for equipment purchases.


(5) RUS Form 200, Rev. 2-04, Construction Contract—Generating. This form is used for generating plant construction or for the furnishing and installation of major items of equipment. 


(6) RUS Form 213, Rev. 2-04, Certificate (“Buy American”). This form is used to document compliance with the “Buy American” requirement. 


(7) RUS Form 224, Rev. 2-04, Waiver and Release of Lien. This form is used for the closeout of RUS Forms 198, 200, 257, 786, 790, and 830. 


(8) RUS Form 231, Rev. 2-04, Certificate of Contractor. This form is used for the closeout of RUS Forms 198, 200, 257, 786, 790, and 830. 


(9) RUS Form 238, Rev. 2-04, Construction or Equipment Contract Amendment. This form is used for amendments. 


(10) RUS Form 254, Rev. 2-04, Construction Inventory. This form is used for the closeout of RUS Form 830. Minor electronic modifications are acceptable for RUS Form 254. 


(11) RUS Form 257, Rev. 2-04, Contract to Construct Buildings. This form is used to construct headquarters buildings and other structure construction. 


(12) RUS Form 307, Rev. 2-04, Bid Bond. This form is used to obtain a bid bond. 


(13) RUS Form 786, Rev. 2-04, Electric System Communications and Control Equipment Contract (including installation). This form is used for delivery and installation of equipment for system communications. 


(14) RUS Form 790, Rev. 2-04, Electric System Construction Contract—Non-Site Specific Construction. This form is used for limited distribution construction accounted for under work order procedure. 


(15) RUS Form 792b, Rev. 2-04, Certificate of Construction and Indemnity Agreement. This form is used for the closeout of RUS Form 790. 


(16) RUS Form 830, Rev. 2-04, Electric System Construction Contract—Project Construction. This form is used for distribution and transmission line project construction. 


(d) List of guidance contract forms. RUS does not currently publish any guidance forms for electric borrowers.



---

[N] [63 FR 58287, Oct. 30, 1998, as amended at 69 FR 7110, Feb. 13, 2004; 69 FR 52595, Aug. 27, 2004]




