# § 229.1114   (Item 1114) Credit enhancement and other support, except for certain derivatives instruments.

(a) *Descriptive information.* To the extent material, describe the following, including a clear discussion of the manner in which each potential item is designed to affect or ensure timely payment of the asset-backed securities:


(1) Any external credit enhancement designed to ensure that the asset-backed securities or pool assets will pay in accordance with their terms, such as bond insurance, letters of credit or guarantees.


(2) Any mechanisms to ensure that payments on the asset-backed securities are timely, such as liquidity facilities, lending facilities, guaranteed investment contracts and minimum principal payment agreements.


(3) Any derivatives whose primary purpose is to provide credit enhancement related to pool assets or the asset-backed securities.


(4) Any internal credit enhancement as a result of the structure of the transaction that increases the likelihood that payments will be made on one or more classes of the asset-backed securities in accordance with their terms, such as subordination provisions, overcollateralization, reserve accounts, cash collateral accounts or spread accounts.


(b) *Information regarding significant enhancement providers*—(1) *Descriptive information.* If an entity or group of affiliated entities providing enhancement or other support described in paragraph (a) of this section is liable or contingently liable to provide payments representing 10% or more of the cash flow supporting any offered class of asset-backed securities, provide the following information:


(i) The name of such enhancement provider.


(ii) The organizational form of enhancement provider.


(iii) The general character of the business of such enhancement provider.


(2) *Financial information.* (i) If any entity or group of affiliated entities providing enhancement or other support described in paragraph (a) of this section is liable or contingently liable to provide payments representing 10% or more, but less than 20%, of the cash flow supporting any offered class of the asset-backed securities, provide summarized financial information, as defined by § 210.1-02(bb) of this chapter (Rule 1-02(bb) of Regulation S-X), for each such entity or group of affiliated entities for each of the last three fiscal years (or the life of the entity or group of affiliated entities and any predecessors, if less). 


(ii) If any entity or group of affiliated entities providing enhancement or other support described in paragraph (a) of this section is liable or contingently liable to provide payments representing 20% or more of the cash flow supporting any offered class of the asset-backed securities, provide financial statements meeting the requirements of §§ 210.1-01 through 210.13-02 (Regulation S-X) of this chapter, except §§ 210.3-05 (Rule 3-05) and 210.11-01 through 210.11-03 (Article 11 of Regulation S-X) of this chapter, of such entity or group of affiliated entities. Financial statements of such enhancement provider and its subsidiaries consolidated (as required by § 240.14a-3(b) of this chapter) shall be filed under this item.



---

[N] [70 FR 1597, Jan. 7, 2005, as amended at 79 FR 57315, Sept. 24, 2014; 85 FR 22003, Apr. 20, 2020; 86 FR 2129, Jan. 11, 2021]




