# § 303.101   Expedited processes.

(a) *Definition. Expedited processes* means administrative and judicial procedures (including IV-D agency procedures) required under section 466(a)(2) and (c) of the Act;


(b) *Basic requirement.* (1) The State must have in effect and use, in interstate and intrastate cases, expedited processes as specified under this section to establish paternity and to establish, modify, and enforce support orders.


(2) Under expedited processes: 


(i) In IV-D cases needing support order establishment, regardless of whether paternity has been established, action to establish support orders must be completed from the date of service of process to the time of disposition within the following timeframes: (A) 75 percent in 6 months; and (B) 90 percent in 12 months.


(ii) In IV-D cases where a support order has been established, actions to enforce the support order must be taken within the timeframes specified in §§ 303.6(c)(2) and 303.100; 


(iii) For purposes of the timeframe at § 303.101(b)(2)(i), in cases where the IV-D agency uses long-arm jurisdiction and disposition occurs within 12 months of service of process on the alleged father or noncustodial parent, the case may be counted as a success within the 6 month tier of the timeframe, regardless of when disposition occurs in the 12 month period following service of process. 


(iv) Disposition, as used in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (iii) of this section, means the date on which a support order is officially established and/or recorded or the action is dismissed. 


(c) *Safeguards.* Under expedited processes:


(1) Paternities and orders established by means other than full judicial process must have the same force and effect under State law as paternities and orders established by full judicial process within the State; 


(2) The due process rights of the parties involved must be protected;


(3) The parties must be provided a copy of the voluntary acknowledgment of paternity, paternity determination, and/or support order; 


(4) Action taken may be reviewed under the State's generally applicable administrative or judicial procedures.


(d) *Functions.* The functions performed by presiding officers under expedited processes must include at minimum:


(1) Taking testimony and establishing a record;


(2) Evaluating evidence and making recommendations or decisions to establish paternity and to establish and enforce orders; 


(3) Accepting voluntary acknowledgment of paternity or support liability and stipulated agreements setting the amount of support to be paid; 


(4) Entering default orders upon a showing that process has been served on the defendant in accordance with State law, that the defendant failed to respond to service in accordance with State procedures, and any additional showing required by State law; and 


(5) Ordering genetic tests in contested paternity cases in accordance with § 303.5(d)(1). 


(e) *Exemption for political subdivisions.* A State may request an exemption from any of the requirements of this section for a political subdivision on the basis of the effectiveness and timeliness of paternity establishment, support order issuance or enforcement within the political subdivision in accordance with the provisions of § 302.70(d) of this chapter. 



---

[N] [50 FR 19655, May 9, 1985, as amended at 50 FR 23958, June 7, 1985; 59 FR 66251, Dec. 23, 1994; 64 FR 6252, Feb. 9, 1999; 68 FR 25305, May 12, 2003]




