# § 80.140   Reporting.

(a) *General provisions*—(1) *Applicability.* Parties must submit reports to EPA according to the schedule and containing all applicable information specified in this section.


(2) *Forms and procedures for report submission.* All reports required under this section must be submitted using forms and procedures specified by EPA.


(3) *Additional reporting elements.* In addition to any applicable reporting requirement under this section, parties must submit any additional information EPA requires to administer the reporting requirements of this section.


(4) *English language reports.* All reported information submitted to EPA under this section must be submitted in English, or must include an English translation.


(5) *Signature of reports.* Reports required under this section must be signed and certified as meeting all the applicable requirements of this subpart by the RCO or their delegate identified in the company registration under 40 CFR 1090.805(a)(1)(iv).


(6) *Report submission deadlines.* Reports required under this section must be submitted by the following deadlines:


(i) Monthly reports must be submitted by the applicable monthly deadline in § 80.1451(f)(4).


(ii) Quarterly reports must be submitted by the applicable quarterly deadline in § 80.1451(f)(2).


(iii) Annual reports must be submitted by the applicable annual deadline in § 80.1451(f)(1).


(7) *Volume standardization.* (i) All volumes reported to EPA in scf under this section must be standardized to STP.


(ii) All volumes reported to EPA in Btu under this section must be converted according to § 80.155(f), if applicable.


(iii) All other volumes reported to EPA under this section must be standardized according to § 80.1426(f)(8).


(b) *Biogas producers.* A biogas producer must submit monthly reports to EPA containing all the following information for each batch of biogas:


(1) Batch number.


(2) Production date (end date of the calendar month).


(3) Verification status of the batch.


(4) The batch volume of biogas supplied to the downstream party, in Btu HHV and scf, as measured under § 80.155.


(5) The associated pathway information, including D code, designated use of the biogas (*e.g.,* biointermediate, renewable CNG/LNG, or RNG), and feedstock information.


(6) The EPA-issued company and facility IDs for the RNG producer, biogas closed distribution system RIN generator, or renewable fuel producer that received the batch of the biogas.


(c) *RNG producers.* (1) An RNG producer must submit quarterly reports to EPA containing all the following information:


(i) The total volume of RNG, in Btu LHV and scf, produced and injected into the natural gas commercial pipeline system as measured under § 80.155.


(ii) The total volume of non-renewable components, in Btu LHV, added to RNG prior to injection into the natural gas commercial pipeline system.


(2) A non-RIN generating foreign RNG producer must submit monthly reports to EPA containing all the following information for each batch of RNG:


(i) Batch number.


(ii) Production date (end date of the calendar month).


(iii) Verification status of the batch.


(iv) The associated pathway information, including D code, production process, and feedstock information.


(v) The EPA-issued company and facility IDs for the RNG importer that will generate RINs for the batch.


(d) *Biogas closed distribution system RIN generators.* A biogas closed distribution system RIN generator must submit monthly reports to EPA containing all the following information:


(1)(i) For fuels that are gaseous at STP, the type and volume of biogas-derived renewable fuel, in Btu LHV.


(ii) For all other fuels, the type and volume of biogas-derived renewable fuel, in gallons.


(2) Each of the following, as applicable, as measured under § 80.155:


(i) The volume of biogas, in Btu HHV, used to produce the treated biogas that is used to produce the biogas-derived renewable fuel.


(ii) The volume of biogas, in Btu HHV, used to produce the biogas-derived renewable fuel.


(iii) The volume of treated biogas, in Btu HHV, used to produce the biogas-derived renewable fuel.


(3) The name(s) and location(s) of where the biogas-derived renewable fuel is used or sold for use as transportation fuel.


(4)(i) For fuels that are gaseous at STP, the volume of biogas-derived renewable fuel, in Btu LHV, used at each location where the biogas-derived renewable fuel is used or sold for use as transportation fuel.


(ii) For all other fuels, the volume of biogas-derived renewable fuel, in gallons, used at each location where the biogas-derived renewable fuel is used or sold for use as transportation fuel.


(5) All applicable information in § 80.1451(b).


(e) *RNG RIN separators.* (1) An RNG RIN separator must submit quarterly reports to EPA containing all the following information:


(i) Name and location of each point where RNG was withdrawn from the natural gas commercial pipeline system.


(ii) Volume of RNG, in Btu LHV, withdrawn from the natural gas commercial pipeline system during the reporting period by withdrawal location.


(iii) Volume of renewable CNG/LNG, in Btu LHV, dispensed during the reporting period by withdrawal location.


(2) An RNG RIN separator must submit monthly reports to EPA containing all the following information for each batch of biogas:


(i) The location where renewable CNG/LNG was dispensed as transportation fuel.


(ii) The volume of renewable CNG/LNG, in Btu LHV, dispensed as transportation fuel at the location.


(f) *Retirement of RINs for RNG used as a feedstock or process heat.* A party that retires RINs for RNG used as a feedstock or as process heat or energy under § 80.1426(f)(12) or (13) must submit quarterly reports to EPA containing all the following information:


(1) The name(s) and location(s) of the natural gas commercial pipeline where the RNG was withdrawn.


(2) Volume of RNG, in Btu LHV, withdrawn from the natural gas commercial pipeline during the reporting period by location.


(3) The EPA-issued company and facility IDs for the facility that used the withdrawn RNG as a feedstock or as process heat.


(4) For each facility, the following information, as applicable:


(i) For fuels that are gaseous at STP, the volume of biogas-derived renewable fuel, in Btu LHV, produced using the withdrawn RNG.


(ii) For all other fuels, the volume of biogas-derived renewable fuel, in gallons, produced using the withdrawn RNG.


(5) The number of RINs for RNG retired during the reporting period by D code and verification status.



---

[N] [88 FR 44564, July 12, 2023; 88 FR 51239, Aug. 3, 2023]






