# § 334.85   New York Harbor, adjacent to the Stapleton Naval Station, Staten Island, New York; restricted area.

(a) *The area.* The waters of New York Harbor beginning at a point on shore at latitude 40°38′02″ N, longitude 074°04′24″ W; thence easterly to latitude 40°38′02.5″ N, longitude 074°04′09″ W; thence southerly to latitude 40°37′53″ N, longitude 074°04′07″ W; thence east-southeasterly to latitude 40°37′50″ N, longitude 074°03′50.2″ W; thence south-southeasterly to latitude 40°37′37.5″ N, longitude 074°03′46″ W; thence southwesterly to the shore line at latitude 40°37′24.5″ N, longitude 074°04′18″ W; thence northerly along the shore line to the point of origin.


(b) *The regulations.* (1) The portion of the restricted area extending from the shore out to a line 600 feet east of the U.S. Pierhead Line is closed to all persons and vessels except those vessels owned by, under hire to or performing work for Naval Station New York, Staten Island, New York.


(2) The portion of the restricted area beginning 600 feet seaward of the U.S. Pierhead Line is open to transiting vessels only. Vessels shall proceed across the area by the most direct route and without unnecessary delay. For vessels under sail, necessary tacking shall constitute a direct route.


(3) Commercial vessels at anchor will be permitted to swing into the seaward portion of the restricted area while at anchor and during the tide changes.


(c) *Enforcement.* The regulations in this section shall be enforced by the Commanding Officer, Naval Station New York, and such agencies as he/she shall designate.



---

[N] [56 FR 5300, Feb. 8, 1991]




