# § 1206.507   Categories of requesters.

(a) A request should indicate the fee category. If the requester does not indicate a fee category, or it is unclear to the FOIA office, the FOIA office will make a determination of the fee category based on the request. If the requester does not agree with their determination, he/she will be afforded the opportunity to provide information to support a different fee category.


(b) If the request is submitted on behalf of another person or organization (e.g., if an attorney is submitting a request on behalf of a client), the fee category will be determined by considering the underlying requester's identity and intended use of the information. The following table outlines the basic fee categories and applicable fees:


(c) The FOIA provides for three categories of requesters. However, for clarity purposes, NASA has broken them down to four for the purposes of determining fees. These four categories of FOIA requesters are: Commercial use requesters; educational and noncommercial scientific institutions; representatives of the news media; and all other requesters. The Act prescribes specific levels of fees for each of these categories, which is indicated in the FOIA fee table above.


(1) *Commercial use requesters.* When NASA receives a request for documents appearing to be for commercial use, meaning a request from or on behalf of one whom seeks information for a use or purpose that furthers the commercial, trade, or profit interests, which can include furthering those interests through litigation, of either the requester or the person on whose behalf the request is made, it will assess charges to recover the full direct costs of searching for, reviewing for release, and duplicating the records sought. NASA will not consider a commercial-use request for a waiver or reduction of fees based upon an assertion that disclosure would be in the public interest. A request from a corporation (not a news media corporation) may be presumed to be for commercial use unless the requester demonstrates that it qualifies for a different fee category. Commercial use requesters are not entitled to two (2) hours of search time or to 100 pages of duplication of documents without charge.


(2) *Education and non-commercial scientific institution requesters.* To be eligible for inclusion in the category in this paragraph (c)(2), requesters must show that the request being made is authorized by and under the auspices of a qualifying institution and that the records are not being sought for a commercial use (not operated for commerce, trade, or profit), but are being sought in furtherance of scholarly (if the request is from an educational institution) or scientific (if the request is from a non-commercial scientific institution) research.


(i) Educational institution is any school that operates a program of scholarly research. A requester in the fee category in this paragraph (c)(2) must show that the request is made in connection with the requester's role at the educational institution. NASA may seek assurance from the requester that the request is in furtherance of scholarly research and will advise requesters of their placement in the category in this paragraph (c)(2). A request for educational purposes may be presumed if submitted on the Institution's letterhead and signed by the Dean of the School or Department.


(A) *Example 1.* A request from a professor of geology at a university for records relating to soil erosion, written on letterhead of the Department of Geology, would be presumed to be from an educational institution.


(B) *Example 2.* A request from the same professor of geology seeking drug information from the Food and Drug Administration in furtherance of a murder mystery he is writing would not be presumed to be an institutional request, regardless of whether it was written on institutional stationery.


(C) *Example 3.* A student, who makes a request in furtherance of the student's coursework or other school-sponsored activities and provides a copy of a course syllabus or other reasonable documentation to indicate the research purpose for the request, would qualify as part of the fee category in this paragraph (c)(2).


(ii) For the purposes of a non-commercial scientific institution, it must be solely for the purpose of conducting scientific research, the results of which are not intended to promote any particular product or industry. Requests must be sent on the letterhead of the scientific institution and signed by the responsible official-in-charge of the project/program associated with the subject of the documents that are being requested.


(3) *Representative of the news media.* (i) NASA shall provide documents to requesters in the category in this paragraph (c)(3) for the cost of duplication alone, excluding charges for the first 100 pages.


(ii) Representative of the news media is any person or entity that gathers information of potential interest to a segment of the public, uses editorial skills to turn the raw materials into a distinct work, and distributes that work to an audience. The term “news” means information that is about current events or that would be of current interest to the public. Examples of new media entities include television or radio stations that broadcast “news” to the public at large and publishers of periodicals that disseminate “news” and make their products available through a variety of means to the general public, including news organizations that disseminate solely on the internet. These examples are not all inclusive. As methods of news delivery evolve, alternative news media entities may come into existence. A request for records supporting the news-dissemination function of the requester will not be considered to be for a commercial use. “Freelance” journalists who demonstrate a solid basis for expecting publication through a news media entity will be considered as a representative of the news media. A publishing contract would provide the clearest evidence that publication is expected; however, agencies can also consider a requester's past publication record in making this determination. Agencies will advise requesters of their placement in the category in this paragraph (c)(3).


(iii) Requesters seeking the fee category in this paragraph (c)(3) who do not articulate sufficient information to support their request will not be included in the fee category in this paragraph (c)(3). Additionally, FOIA staff may grant a reduction of fees if the requester can articulate the information of this section for some of the documents.


(4) *All other requesters.* NASA shall charge requesters who do not fit into any of the categories mentioned in this section fees in accordance with the fee table in paragraph (b) of this section.



---

[N] [79 FR 46678, Aug. 11, 2014, as amended at NASA-2019-0005, 84 FR 54778, Oct. 11, 2019]




