# § 3.118   Handling.

(a) Carriers and intermediate handlers moving marine mammals from the animal holding area of the terminal facility to the primary conveyance or from the primary conveyance to the animal holding area of the terminal facility must provide the following: 


(1) *Movement of animals as expeditiously as possible.*

(2) *Shelter from overheating and direct sunlight.* When sunlight is likely to cause overheating, sunburn, or discomfort, sufficient shade must be provided to protect the marine mammals. Marine mammals must not be subjected to surrounding air temperatures that exceed 23.9 °C (75 °F) unless accompanied by an acclimation certificate in accordance with § 3.112 of this subpart. The temperature must be measured and read within or immediately adjacent to the primary transport enclosure. 


(3) *Shelter from cold weather.* Marine mammals must be provided with species appropriate protection against cold weather, and such marine mammals must not be subjected to surrounding air temperatures that fall below 7.2 °C (45 °F) unless accompanied by an acclimation certificate in accordance with § 3.112 of this subpart. The temperature must be measured and read within or immediately adjacent to the primary transport enclosure. 


(b) Care must be exercised to avoid handling of the primary transport enclosure in a manner that may cause physical harm or distress to the marine mammal contained within. 


(c) Enclosures used to transport any marine mammal must not be tossed, dropped, or needlessly tilted and must not be stacked unless properly secured.



---

[N] [66 FR 257, Jan. 3, 2001]






