# ยง 2700.82   Ex parte communications.

(a) For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply: 


(1) *Ex parte communication* means an oral or written communication not on the public record concerning any matter or proceeding with respect to which reasonable prior notice to all parties has not been given. A status or informational request does not constitute an ex parte communication. 


(2) *Status or informational request* means a request for a status report on any matter or proceeding or a request concerning filing requirements or other docket information. 


(3) *Merits of a case,* which shall be broadly construed by the Commission, includes discussion of the factual or legal issues in a case or resolution of those issues. 


(b) *Prohibited ex parte communication.* There shall be no ex parte communication with respect to the merits of a case not concluded, between the Commission, including any member, Judge, officer, or agent of the Commission who is employed in the decisional process, and any of the parties, intervenors, representatives, amici, or other interested persons. 


(c) *Procedure in case of violation.* (1) In the event a prohibited ex parte communication occurs, the Commission or the Judge may make such orders or take such action to remedy the effect of the ex parte communication as circumstances require. Upon notice and hearing, the Commission may take disciplinary action against any person who knowingly and willfully makes or causes to be made a prohibited ex parte communication. 


(2) A memorandum setting forth all ex parte communications, whether prohibited or not, shall be placed on the public record of the proceeding. 


(d) *Inquiries.* Any inquiries concerning filing requirements, the status of cases before the Commission, or docket information shall be directed to the Office of General Counsel or the Docket Office of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission, 1331 Pennsylvania Avenue NW., Suite 520N, Washington, DC 20004-1710. 



---

[N] [58 FR 12164, Mar. 3, 1993, as amended at 67 FR 60862, Sept. 27, 2002; 77 FR 48430, Aug. 14, 2012]




