# ยง 1070.13   Public inspection in an electronic format.

(a) *In general.* Subject to the application of the FOIA exemptions and exclusions (5 U.S.C. 552(b) and (c)), the CFPB shall, in conformance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(2), make available for public inspection in an electronic format, including by posting on the CFPB's website, *http://www.consumerfinance.gov,* or, in the alternative, promptly publish and offer for sale the following information:


(1) Final opinions, including concurring and dissenting opinions, and orders made in the adjudication of cases;


(2) Those statements of policy and interpretations which have been adopted by the CFPB but are not published in the _Federal Register_;


(3) Its administrative staff manuals and instructions to staff that affect a member of the public;


(4) Copies of all records made publicly available pursuant to ยง 1070.11; and


(5) A general index of the records referred to in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.


(b) *Information made available online.* For records required to be made available for public inspection in an electronic format pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(2) (paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section), as soon as practicable, the CFPB shall make such records available on its e-FOIA Library, located at *http://www.consumerfinance.gov.*

(c) *Record availability at the on-site e-FOIA Library.* Any member of the public may, upon request, access the CFPB's e-FOIA Library via a computer terminal at 1700 G Street NW, Washington, DC 20552. Such a request may be made by electronic means as set forth on the CFPB's website, *http://www.consumerfinance.gov,* or in writing, to the Chief FOIA Officer, Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, 1700 G Street NW, Washington, DC 20552. The request must indicate a preferred date and time for the requested access. The CFPB reserves the right to arrange a different date and time with the requester, if necessary.


(d) *Redaction of identifying details.* To prevent a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, the CFPB may redact identifying details contained in any matter described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section before making such matters available for inspection or publication. The justification for the redaction shall be explained fully in writing, and the extent of such redaction shall be indicated on the portion of the record which is made available or published, unless including that indication would harm an interest protected by the exemption in 5 U.S.C. 552(b) under which the redaction is made. If technically feasible, the extent of the redaction shall be indicated at the place in the record where the redaction is made.




