# § 1940.564   Section 502 subsidized guaranteed Rural Housing loans.

(a) *Amount available for allocations.* See § 1940.552(a) of this subpart.


(b) *Basic formula criteria, data source and weight.* See § 1940.552(b) of this subpart. The criteria used in the basic formula are:


(1) State's percentage of the National number of rural occupied substandard units,


(2) State's percentage of the National rural population in places of less than 2,500 population,


(3) State's percentage of the national number of rural households below 80 percent of the area median income, and


(4) State's percentage of the national number of rural renter households paying more than 35 percent of income for rent. The data source for each criterion is specified in paragraph (b)(5) of this section. Each criterion is assigned a specific weight according to its relevance in determining need. The percentage representing each criterion is multiplied by the weight factor and summed to arrive at a basic State factor (SF) as follows:


SF = (criterion 1 × weight of 30%) + (criterion 2 × weight of 10%) + (criterion 3 × weight of 30%) + (criterion 4 × weight of 30%)


(5) The data source for the criteria specified in paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(2), and (b)(4) of this section is the most recent decennial Census. The data source for the criterion specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section is 5-year income data from the American Community Survey (ACS) or, if needed, other Census Bureau data.


(c) *Basic formula allocation.* See § 1940.552(c) of this subpart.


(d) *Transition formula.* See § 1940.552(d) of this subpart. The percentage range used for section 502 guaranteed RH loans is plus or minus 15.


(e) *Base allocation.* See § 1940.552(e) of this subpart. Jurisdictions receiving administrative allocations do not receive base allocations.


(f) *Administration allocations.* See § 1940.552(f) of this subpart. Jurisdictions receiving formula allocations do not receive administrative allocations.


(g) *Reserve.* See § 1940.552(g) of this subpart.


(h) *Pooling of funds.* See § 1940.552(h) of this subpart.


(1) Mid-year: If used in a particular fiscal year, available funds unobligated as of the pooling date are pooled and redistributed based on the formula used to allocate funds initially.


(2) Year-end: Pooled funds are placed in a National Office reserve and are available as determined administratively.


(i) *Availability of the allocation.* See § 1940.552(i) of this subpart.


(j) *Suballocation by the State Director.* See § 1940.552(j) of this subpart. Annually, the Administrator will advise State Director's whether or not suballocation within the State Office jurisdiction will be required for the guaranteed Housing program.


(k) *Other documentation.* Not applicable.



---

[N] [56 FR 10509, Mar. 13, 1991, as amended at 80 FR 9877, Feb. 24, 2015]




