# ยง 17.6   Responsibility for painting and lighting compliance.

(a) The antenna structure owner is responsible for maintaining the painting and lighting in accordance with this part. However, if a licensee or permittee authorized on an antenna structure is aware that the structure is not being maintained in accordance with the specifications set forth on the Antenna Structure Registration (FCC Form 854R) or the requirements of this part, or otherwise has reason to question whether the antenna structure owner is carrying out its responsibility under this part, the licensee or permittee must take immediate steps to ensure that the antenna structure is brought into compliance and remains in compliance. The licensee must:


(1) Immediately notify the structure owner;


(2) Immediately notify the site management company (if applicable);


(3) Immediately notify the Commission; and,


(4) Make a diligent effort to immediately bring the structure into compliance.


(b) In the event of non-compliance by the antenna structure owner, the Commission may require each licensee and permittee authorized on an antenna structure to maintain the structure, for an indefinite period, in accordance with the Antenna Structure Registration (FCC Form 854R) and the requirements of this part.


(c) If the owner of the antenna structure cannot file FCC Form 854 because it is subject to a denial of Federal benefits under the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988, 21 U.S.C. 862, the first tenant licensee authorized to locate on the structure (excluding tenants that no longer occupy the structure) must electronically register the structure using FCC Form 854, and provide a copy of the Antenna Structure Registration (FCC Form 854R) to the owner. The owner remains responsible for providing to all tenant licensees and permittees notification that the structure has been registered, consistent with ยง 17.4(f), and for posting the registration number as required by ยง 17.4(g).



---

[N] [61 FR 4363, Feb. 6, 1996, as amended at 79 FR 56985, Sept. 24, 2014; 85 FR 85532, Dec. 29, 2020]




