# § 1045.145   Are there interim provisions that apply only for a limited time?

The provisions in this section apply instead of other provisions in this part. This section describes how and when these interim provisions apply.


(a)-(g) [Reserved]


(h) *Carryover of California ARB emission data.* The provisions of 40 CFR 1065.10(c)(5) allow for the use of emission data generated for the California Air Resources Board as the basis for EPA certification. For sterndrive/inboard engines certified in California before the 2010 model year, you may use such emission data as the basis for meeting the standards of § 1045.105, as long as you meet the conditions specified in § 1045.235(d).


(i)-(m) [Reserved]


(n) *Continued use of 40 CFR part 91 test data.* You may continue to use test data based on the test procedures that applied for engines built before the requirements of this part started to apply if we allow you to use carryover emission data under § 1045.235(d) for your engine family. You may also use those test procedures for production-line testing with any engine family whose certification is based on testing with those procedures. For any EPA testing, we will rely on the procedures described in subpart F of this part, even if you used carryover data based on older test procedures as allowed under this paragraph (n).


(o) *Banking early credits for jet boat engines.* Banked emission credits that were originally generated from outboard and personal watercraft engines under 40 CFR part 91 may be used to certify jet boat engines under the provisions § 1045.660.



---

[N] [73 FR 59194, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 23019, Apr. 30, 2010; 75 FR 68462, Nov. 8, 2010; 86 FR 34513, June 29, 2021]




