# § 131.170   Eggnog.

(a) *Description.* Eggnog is the food containing one or more of the optional dairy ingredients specified in paragraph (b), one or more of the optional egg yolk-containing ingredients specified in paragraph (c) of this section, and one or more of the optional nutritive carbohydrate sweeteners specified in paragraph (d) of this section. One or more of the optional ingredients specified in paragraph (e) of this section may also be added. All ingredients used are safe and suitable. Eggnog contains not less than 6 percent milkfat and not less than 8.25 percent milk solids not fat. The egg yolk solids content is not less than 1 percent by weight of the finished food. The food shall be pasteurized or ultra-pasteurized and may be homogenized. Flavoring ingredients and color additives may be added after the food is pasteurized or ultra-pasteurized.


(b) *Optional dairy ingredients.* Cream, milk, partially skimmed milk, or skim milk, used alone or in combination.


(c) *Egg yolk-containing ingredients.* Liquid egg yolk, frozen egg yolk, dried egg yolk, liquid whole eggs, frozen whole eggs, dried whole eggs, or any one or more of the foregoing ingredients with liquid egg white or frozen egg white.


(d) *Nutritive carbohydrate sweeteners.* Sugar (sucrose), beet or cane; invert sugar (in paste or sirup form); brown sugar; refiner's sirup; molasses (other than blackstrap); high fructose corn sirup; fructose; fructose sirup; maltose; maltose sirup, dried maltose sirup; malt extract, dried malt extract; malt sirup, dried malt sirup; honey; maple sugar; or any of the sweeteners listed in part 168 of this chapter, except table sirup.


(e) *Other optional ingredients.* (1) Concentrated skim milk, nonfat dry milk, buttermilk, whey, lactose, lactalbumins, lactoglobulins, or whey modified by partial or complete removal of lactose and/or minerals, to increase the nonfat solids content of the food: *Provided,* That the ratio of protein to total nonfat solids of the food, and the protein efficiency ratio of all protein present shall not be decreased as a result of adding such ingredients.


(2) Salt.


(3) Flavoring ingredients.


(4) Color additives that do not impart a color simulating that of egg yolk, milkfat, or butterfat.


(5) Stabilizers.


(f) *Methods of analysis.* The following referenced methods of analysis are from “Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists,” 13th Ed. (1980), which is incorporated by reference. Copies are available from the AOAC INTERNATIONAL, 481 North Frederick Ave., suite 500, Gaithersburg, MD 20877, or available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: *http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.*

(1) Milkfat content—As determined by the method prescribed in section 16.059, “Roese-Gottlieb Method (Reference Method) (11)—Official Final Action,” under the heading “Fat.”


(2) Milk solids not fat content—Calculated by subtracting the milkfat content from the total solids content as determined by the method prescribed in section 16.032, “Method I—Official Final Action,” under the heading “Total Solids.”


(g) *Nomenclature.* The name of the food is “eggnog”. The name of the food shall be accompanied by a declaration indicating the presence of any characterizing flavoring as specified in § 101.22 of this chapter. If the food is ultra-pasteurized, the phrase “ultra-pasteurized” shall accompany the name of the food wherever it appears on the label in letters not less than one-half of the height of the letters used in the name. The following terms may accompany the name of the food on the label:


(1) The word “pasteurized” if the food has been pasteurized.


(2) The word “homogenized” if the food has been homogenized.


(h) *Label declaration.* Each of the ingredients used in the food shall be declared on the label as required by the applicable sections of parts 101 and 130 of this chapter.



---

[N] [46 FR 9938, Jan. 30, 1981, as amended at 47 FR 11825, Mar. 19, 1982; 47 FR 41524, Sept. 21, 1982; 47 FR 49638, Nov. 2, 1982; 48 FR 24869, June 3, 1983; 54 FR 24893, June 12, 1989; 58 FR 2891, Jan. 6, 1993]




