# ยง 140.76   Delegation of authority to disclose information in a receivership or bankruptcy proceeding.

(a) Pursuant to sections 2(a)(11) and 8(b) of the Act, the Commission hereby delegates, until such time as the Commission orders otherwise, to the Director of the Division of Enforcement, the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk, the Director of the Market Participants Division, the General Counsel, or any Commission employee under their direction as they may designate Commission employee under their direction as they may designate, the authority to disclose data and information that would separately disclose the business transactions or market positions of any person and trade secrets or names of customers, when such disclosure is made in any receivership proceeding involving a receiver appointed in a judicial proceeding brought under the Act, or in any bankruptcy proceeding in which the Commission has intervened or in which the Commission has the right to appear and be heard under title 11 of the United States Code.


(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a), in any case in which the Director of the Division of Enforcement, the Director of the Division of Clearing and Risk, the Director of the Market Participants Division, the General Counsel, or any employee designated by them to make disclosures pursuant to this section believes it appropriate, the matter may be submitted to the Commission for consideration. In addition, the Commission reserves to itself the authority to determine whether to grant a request for information in any particular case.



---

[N] [49 FR 4464, Feb. 7, 1984, as amended at 67 FR 62352, Oct. 7, 2002; 78 FR 22419, Apr. 16, 2013; 89 FR 71813, Sept. 4, 2024]




