# § 58.205   Meaning of words.

For the purpose of the regulations in this subpart, words in the singular form shall be deemed to impart the plural and vice versa, as the case may demand. Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms shall have the following meaning: 


(a) *Nonfat dry milk.* The product obtained by the removal of only water from pasteurized skim milk. It contains not more than 5 percent by weight of moisture and not more than 1
1/2 percent by weight of milkfat and it conforms to the applicable provisions of 21 CFR 131 “Milk and Cream” as issued by the Food and Drug Administration. Nonfat dry milk shall not contain nor be derived from dry buttermilk, dry whey, or products other than skim milk, and shall not contain any added preservative, neutralizing agent, or other chemical. 


(b) *Instant nonfat dry milk.* Instant nonfat dry milk is nonfat dry milk which has been produced in such a manner as to substantially improve its dispersing and reconstitution characteristics over that produced by the conventional process. Instant nonfat dry milk shall not contain dry buttermilk, dry whey, or products other than nonfat dry milk, except that lactose may be added as a processing aid during instantizing. The instant nonfat dry milk shall not contain any added preservatives, neutralizing agent, or other chemical. If lactose is used, the amount of lactose shall be the minimum required to produce the desired effect, but in no case shall the amount exceed 2.0 percent of the weight of the nonfat dry milk. If instant nonfat dry milk is fortified with vitamin A, and the product is reconstituted in accordance with the label directions, each quart of the reconstituted product shall contain 2000 International Units thereof. If instant nonfat dry milk is fortified with vitamin D, and the product is reconstituted in accordance with the label directions, each quart of the reconstituted product shall contain 400 International Units thereof. 


(c) *Dry whole milk.* The pasteurized product resulting from the removal of water from milk and contains the lactose, milk proteins, milk fat, and milk minerals in the same relative proportions as in the fresh milk from which made. The milk may be standardized but shall not contain buttermilk, or any added preservative, neutralizing agent or other chemicals. 


(d) *Dry buttermilk.* The product resulting from drying liquid buttermilk that was derived from the churning of butter and pasteurized prior to condensing at a temperature of 161 °F for 15 seconds or its equivalent in bacterial destruction. Dry buttermilk shall have a protein content of not less than 30.0 percent. Dry buttermilk shall not contain nor be derived from nonfat dry milk, dry whey, or products other than buttermilk, and shall not contain any added preservative, neutralizing agent, or other chemical. 


(e) *Dry buttermilk product.* The product resulting from drying liquid buttermilk that was derived from the churning of butter and pasteurized prior to condensing at a temperature of 161 °F for 15 seconds or its equivalent in bacterial destruction. Dry buttermilk product has a protein content less than 30.0 percent. Dry buttermilk product shall not contain nor be derived from nonfat dry milk, dry whey, or products other than buttermilk, and shall not contain any added preservative, neutralizing agent, or other chemical. 



---

[N] [40 FR 47911, Oct. 10, 1975. Redesignated at 42 FR 32514, June 27, 1977, and further redesignated at 46 FR 63203, Dec. 31, 1981, as amended at 56 FR 33855, July 24, 1991; 61 FR 17548, Apr. 22, 1996; 61 FR 35590, July 8, 1996]




