# ยง 1656.12   Job reassignment.

(a) *Grounds for Reassignment.* The Director may reassign an ASW whenever the Director determines that:


(1) The job assignment violates the ASW's religious, moral or ethical beliefs or convictions as to participation in a war that led to his classification as a conscientious objector or violates ยง 1656.5(a) of this part.


(2) An ASW experiences a change in his mental or physical condition which renders him unfit or unable to continue performing satisfactorily in his assigned job;


(3) An ASW's dependents incur a hardship which is not so severe as to justify a suspension of the Order to Perform Alternative Service under ยง 1656.15;


(4) The ASW's employer ceases to operate an approved program or activity;


(5) The ASW's employer fails to comply with terms and conditions of these regulations or;


(6) Continual and severe differences between the ASW's employer and ASW remain unresolved.


(7) The sanctions authorized in ยง 1656.11 should be applied.


(b) *Who May Request Reassignment.* Any ASW may request reassignment to another job. An employer may request job reassignment of an ASW who is in his employ.


(c) *Method for Obtaining a Reassignment.* All requests for reassignment must be in writing with the reasons specified. The request may be filed with the ASO of jurisdiction at any time during an ASW's alternative service employment. An ASW must continue in his assigned job, if available, until the request for assignment is approved.




