# ยง 511.3   Definitions.

(a) As used in this part:


(1) The term *application* means an *ex parte* request by a party for an order that may be granted or denied without opportunity for response by any other party.


(2) The term *NHTSA* means the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.


(3) The term *Administrator* means the Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.


(4) The term *Complaint Counsel* means prosecuting counsel for the NHTSA.


(5) The term *motion* means a request by a party for a ruling or order that may be granted or denied only after opportunity for response by each affected party.


(6) The term *party* means the NHTSA, and any person named as a respondent in a proceeding governed by this part.


(7) The term *person* means any individual, partnership, corporation, association, public or private organization, or Federal, State or municipal governmental entity.


(8) The term *petition* means a written request, made by a person or a party and addressed to the Presiding Officer or the Administrator, that the addressee take some action.


(9) The term *Presiding Officer* means the person who conducts an adjudicative hearing under this part, who shall be an administrative law judge qualified under title 5, U.S.C., section 3105 and assigned by the Chief Administrative Law Judge, Office of Hearings, United States Department of Transportation.


(10) The term *Respondent* means any person against whom a complaint has been issued.


(11) The term *Office of Hearings* means the Officer of Hearings, Department of Transportation.


(12) The term *staff* means the staff of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.


(13) The term *Chief Administrative Law Judge* means the Chief Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Hearings, Department of Transportation.


(14) The term *Docket Section* means the Docket Section, Office of the Secretary of Transportation.



---

[N] [45 FR 81578, Dec. 11, 1980, as amended at 53 FR 15782, May 3, 1988]




