# § 1.367(a)-6T   Transfer of foreign branch with previously deducted losses (temporary).

(a) *In general.* This section provides special rules relating to the transfer of the assets of a foreign branch with previously deducted losses. Paragraph (b) of this section provides generally that such losses must be recaptured by the recognition of the gain realized on the transfer. Paragraph (c) of this section sets forth rules concerning the character of, and limitations on, the gain required to be recognized. Paragraph (d) of this section defines the term *previously deducted losses.* Paragraph (e) of this section describes certain reductions that are made to the previously deducted losses before they are taken into income under this section. Finally, paragraph (g) of this section defines the term *foreign branch.*

(b) *Recognition of gain required*—(1) *In general.* If a U.S. person transfers any assets of a foreign branch to a foreign corporation in an exchange described in section 367(a)(1), then the transferor shall recognize gain equal to—


(i) The sum of the previously deducted branch ordinary losses as defined and reduced in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section; and


(ii) The sum of the previously deducted branch capital losses as defined and reduced in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section. 


(2) [Reserved]


(c) *Special rules concerning gain recognized*—(1) *Character and source of gain.* The gain described in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section shall be treated as ordinary income of the transferor, and the gain described in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section shall be treated as long-term capital gain of the transferor. Gain that is recognized pursuant to the rules of this section shall be treated as income from sources outside the United States. Such recognized gain shall be treated as foreign oil and gas extraction income (as defined in section 907) in the same proportion that previously deducted foreign oil and gas extraction losses bore to the total amount of previously deducted losses. 


(2) [Reserved]


(3) *Foreign goodwill and going concern value.* For purposes of this section, the assets of a foreign branch shall include foreign goodwill and going concern value related to the business of the foreign branch, as defined in § 1.367(a)-1T(d)(5)(iii). Thus, gain realized upon the transfer of the foreign goodwill or going concern value of a foreign branch to a foreign corporation will be taken into account in computing the limitation on loss recapture under paragraph (c)(2) of this section. 


(4) [Reserved]


(d) *Previously deducted losses*—(1) *In general.* This paragraph (d) provides rules for determining, for purposes of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the previously deducted losses of a foreign branch any of whose assets are transferred to a foreign corporation in an exchange described in section 367(a)(1). Initially, the two previously deducted losses of a foreign branch for a taxable year are the total ordinary loss (“previously deducted branch ordinary loss”) and the total capital loss (“previously deducted branch capital loss”) that were realized by the foreign branch in that taxable year (a “branch loss year”) prior to the transfer and that were or will be reflected on a U.S. income tax return of the transferor. The previously deducted branch ordinary loss for each branch loss year is reduced by expired net ordinary losses under paragraph (d)(2) of this section, while the previously deducted capital loss for each loss year is reduced by expired net capital losses under paragraph (d)(3) of this section. For each branch loss year, the remaining previously deducted branch ordinary loss and the remaining previously deducted branch capital loss are then reduced, proceeding from the first branch loss year to the last branch loss year, to reflect expired foreign tax credits under paragraph (d)(4) of this section. The reductions are made in the order of the taxable years in which the foreign tax credits arose. Finally, similar reductions are made to reflect expired investment credits under paragraph (d)(5) of this section. 


(2) *Reduction by expired net ordinary loss*—(i) *In general.* The previously deducted branch ordinary loss for each branch loss year shall be reduced under this paragraph (d)(2) by the amount of any expired net ordinary loss with respect to that branch loss year. Expired net ordinary losses arising in years other than the branch loss year shall reduce the previously deducted branch ordinary loss for the branch loss year only to the extent that the previously deducted branch ordinary loss exceeds the net operating loss, if any, incurred by the transferor in the branch loss year. The previously deducted branch ordinary losses shall be reduced proceeding from the first branch loss year to the last branch loss year. For each branch loss year, expired net operating losses shall be applied to reduce the previously deducted branch ordinary loss for that year in the order in which the expired net ordinary losses arose. 


(ii) *Existence of expired net ordinary loss.* An expired net ordinary loss exists with respect to a branch loss year to the extent that—


(A) The transferor incurred a net operating loss (within the meaning of section 172(c)); 


(B) That net operating loss arose in the branch loss year or was available for carryover or carryback to the branch loss year under section 172(b)(1); 


(C) That net operating loss has neither given rise to a net operating loss deduction (within the meaning of section 172(a)) for any taxable year prior to the year of the transfer, nor given rise to a reduction of any previously deducted branch ordinary loss (pursuant to paragraph (d)(2) of this section) of any foreign branch of the transferor upon a previous transfer to a foreign corporation; and 


(D) The period during which the transferor may claim a net operating loss deduction with respect to that net operating loss has expired. 


(3) *Reduction by expired net capital loss*—(i) *In general.* The previously deducted branch capital loss for each branch loss year shall be reduced under this paragraph (d)(3) by the amount of any expired net capital loss with respect to that branch loss year. Expired net capital losses arising in years other than the branch loss year shall reduce the previously deducted branch capital loss for the branch loss year only to the extent that the previously deducted branch capital loss exceeds the net capital loss, if any, incurred by the transferor in the branch loss year. The previously deducted branch capital losses shall be reduced proceeding from the first branch loss year to the last branch loss year. For each branch loss year, expired net capital losses shall be applied to reduce the previously deducted branch capital loss for that year in the order in which the expired net capital losses arose. 


(ii) *Existence of expired net capital loss.* An expired net capital loss exists with respect to a branch loss year to the extent that— 


(A) The transferor incurred a net capital loss (within the meaning of section 1222(10)); 


(B) That net capital loss arose in the branch loss year or was available for carryover or carryback to the branch loss year under section 1212; 


(C) That net capital loss has neither been allowed for any taxable year prior to the year of the transfer, nor given rise to a reduction of any previously deducted branch capital loss (pursuant to paragraph (c)(3) of this section) of any foreign branch of the transferor upon any previous transfer to a foreign corporation; and 


(D) The period during which the transferor may claim a capital loss deduction with respect to that net capital loss has expired. 


(4) *Reduction for expired foreign tax credit*—(i) *In general.* The previously deducted branch ordinary loss and the previously deducted branch capital loss for each branch loss year remaining after the reductions described in paragraph (d)(2) and (3) of this section shall be further reduced under this paragraph (d)(4) proportionately by the amount of any expired foreign tax credit loss equivalent with respect to that branch loss year. The previously deducted branch losses shall be reduced proceeding from the first branch loss year to the last branch loss year. For each branch loss year, expired foreign tax credit loss equivalents shall be applied to reduce the previously deducted branch loss for that year in the order in which the expired foreign tax credits arose. 


(ii) *Existence of foreign tax credit loss equivalent.* A foreign tax credit loss equivalent exists with respect to a branch loss year if— 


(A) The transferor paid, accrued, or is deemed under section 902 or 960 to have paid creditable foreign taxes in a taxable year;


(B) The creditable foreign taxes were paid, accrued, or deemed paid in the branch loss year or were available for carryover or carryback to the branch loss year under section 904(c); 


(C) No foreign tax credit with respect to the foreign taxes paid, accrued, or deemed paid has been taken because of the operation of section 904(a) or similar limitations provided by the Code or an applicable treaty, and such taxes have not given rise to a reduction (pursuant to this paragraph (d)(5)) of any previously deducted branch loss of the foreign branch for a prior taxable year or of any previously deducted branch losses of any foreign branch of the transferor upon a prior transfer to a foreign corporation; and 


(D) The period during which the transferor may claim a foreign tax credit for the foreign taxes paid, accrued, or deemed paid has expired. 


(iii) *Amount of foreign tax credit loss equivalent.* The amount of the foreign tax credit loss equivalent for the branch loss year with respect to the creditable foreign taxes described in paragraph (d)(4)(ii) of this section is the amount of those creditable foreign taxes divided by the highest rate of tax to which the transferor was subject in the loss year.


(5) *Reduction for expired investment credits*—(i) *In general.* The previously deducted branch ordinary loss and the previously deducted branch capital loss for each branch loss year shall be further reduced under this paragraph (d)(5) proportionately by the amount of any expired investment credit loss equivalent with respect to that branch year. The previously deducted branch losses shall be reduced proceeding from the first branch loss year to the last branch loss year. For each branch loss year, expired investment credit loss equivalents shall be applied to reduce the previously deducted branch loss for that year in the order in which the expired investment credits were earned. 


(ii) *Existence of investment credit loss equivalent.* An investment credit loss equivalent exists with respect to a branch loss year if—


(A) The transferor earned an investment credit (within the meaning of section 46(a)) in a taxable year; 


(B) The investment credit was earned in the branch loss year or was available for carryover or carryback to the branch loss year under section 39; 


(C) The investment credit earned by the transferor in the credit year has been denied by section 38(a) or by similar provisions of the Code and has not given rise to a reduction (pursuant to this paragraph (d)(5)) of any previously deducted branch loss of the foreign branch for a preceding taxable year or of the previously deducted losses of any foreign branch of the transferor upon any previous transfer to a foreign corporation; and 


(D) The period during which the transferor may claim the investment credit has expired. 


(iii) *Amount of investment tax credit loss equivalent.* The amount of the investment credit loss equivalent for the branch loss year with respect to the investment credit described in paragraph (d)(5)(ii) of this section is 85 percent of the amount of that investment credit divided by the highest rate of tax to which the transferor was subject in the loss year.


(e) *Amounts that reduce previously deducted losses subject to recapture*—(1) *In general.* This paragraph (e) describes five amounts that reduce the sum of the previously deducted branch ordinary losses and the sum of the previously deducted branch capital losses before they are taken into income under paragraph (b) of this section. Amounts representing ordinary income shall be applied to reduce first the sum of the previously deducted branch ordinary losses to the extent thereof, and then the sum of the previously deducted branch capital losses to the extent thereof. Similarly, amounts representing capital gains shall be applied to reduce first the sum of the previously deducted branch capital losses and then the sum of the previously deducted branch ordinary losses.


(2) *Taxable income.* The previously deducted losses shall be reduced by any taxable income of the foreign branch recognized through the close of the taxable year of the transfer, whether before or after any taxable year in which losses were incurred.


(3) *Amounts currently recaptured under section 904(f)(3).* The previously deducted losses shall be reduced by the amount recognized under section 904(f)(3) on account of the transfer.


(4) [Reserved]


(5) *Amounts previously recaptured under section 904(f)(3)*—(i) *In general.* The previously deducted branch losses shall be reduced by the portion of any amount recognized under section 904(f)(3) upon a previous transfer of property that was attributable to the losses of the foreign branch, provided that the amount did not reduce any gain otherwise required to be recognized under section 367(a)(3)(C) and this section (or Revenue Ruling 78-201, 1978-1 C.B. 91).


(ii) *Portion attributable to the losses of the foreign branch*—(A) *Branch property.* The full amount recognized under section 904(f)(3) upon a previous transfer of property of the branch shall be treated as attributable to the losses of the foreign branch.


(B) *Non-branch property.* The portion of the amount previously recognized under section 904(f)(3) upon a transfer of non-branch property that was attributable to the losses of the foreign branch shall be the sum, over the taxable years in which the transferor sustained an overall foreign loss some portion of which was recaptured on the disposition, of the recaptured portions of those overall foreign losses after multiplication by the following fraction:


(6) *Amounts previously recognized under the rules of this section.* The previously deducted losses shall be reduced by the amounts previously recognized under the rules of this section upon a previous transfer of assets of the foreign branch.


(f) *Example.* The rules of paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section are illustrated by the following example.


(g) *Definition of foreign branch*—(1) *In general.* For purposes of this section, the term *foreign branch* means an integral business operation carried on by a U.S. person outside the United States. Whether the activities of a U.S. person outside the United States constitute a foreign branch operation must be determined under all the facts and circumstances. Evidence of the existence of a foreign branch includes, but is not limited to, the existence of a separate set of books and records, and the existence of an office or other fixed place of business used by employees or officers of the U.S. person in carrying out business activities outside the United States. Activities outside the United States shall be deemed to constitute a foreign branch for purposes of this section if the activities constitute a permanent establishment under the terms of a treaty between the United States and the country in which the activities are carried out. Any U.S. person may be treated as having a foreign branch for purposes of this section, whether that person is a corporation, partnership, trust, estate, or individual.


(2) *More than one branch.* If a U.S. person carries on more than one branch operation outside the United States, then the rules of this section must be separately applied with respect to each foreign branch that is transferred to a foreign corporation. Thus, the previously deducted losses of one branch may not be offset, for purposes of determining the gain required to be recognized under the rules of this section, by the income of another branch that is also transferred to a foreign corporation. Similarly, the losses of one branch shall not be recaptured upon a transfer of the assets of a separate branch. Whether the foreign activities of a U.S. person are carried out through more than one branch must be determined under all of the facts and circumstances. In general, a separate branch exists if a particular group of activities is sufficiently integrated to constitute a single business that could be operated as an independent enterprise. For purposes of determining the combination of activities that constitute a branch operation as defined in this paragraph (g), the nominal relationship among those activities shall not be controlling. Factors suggesting that nominally separate business operations constitute a single foreign branch include a substantial identity of products, customers, operational facilities, operational processes, accounting and record-keeping functions, management, employees, distribution channels, or sales and purchasing forces. For examples of the application of the principles of this paragraph (g)(2), see Revenue Ruling 81-82, 1981-1 C.B. 127. 


(3) *Consolidated group.* For purposes of this section, the activities of each of two domestic corporations outside the United States will be considered to constitute a single foreign branch if—


(i) The two corporations are members of the same consolidated group of corporations; and


(ii) The activities of the two corporations in the aggregate would constitute a single foreign branch if conducted by a single corporation.


(4) *Property not transferred.* A U.S. transferor's failure to transfer any property of a foreign branch shall be irrelevant to the determination of the previously deducted losses of the branch subject to recapture under the rules of this section. Thus, if the activities with respect to untransferred property constituted a part of the branch operation under the rules of this paragraph (g), then the losses generated by those activities shall be subject to recapture, notwithstanding the failure to transfer the property. For an example of the application of the principles of this paragraph (g)(4), see Revenue Ruling 80-247, 1980-2 C.B. 127, relating to property abandoned by the U.S. transferor.


(h) *Anti-abuse rule.* If—


(1) A U.S. person transfers property of a foreign branch to a domestic corporation for a principal purpose of avoiding the effect of this section; and


(2) The domestic corporation thereafter transfers the property of the foreign branch to a foreign corporation,


(i) *Basis adjustments.* Basis adjustments reflecting gain recognized pursuant to this section shall be made as described in § 1.367(a)-1T(b)(4)(ii).


(j) [Reserved]



---

[N] [T.D. 8087, 51 FR 17950, May 16, 1986, as amended by T.D. 9615, 78 FR 17063, Mar. 19, 2013; T.D. 9760, 81 FR 15169, Mar. 22, 2016; T.D. 9803, 81 FR 91028, Dec. 16, 2016]




