# ยง 764.354   Rates and terms.

(a) *Rates.* (1) The interest rate is the Agency's Emergency Loan Actual Loss rate, available in each Agency office.


(2) The interest rate charged will be the lower rate in effect at the time of loan approval or loan closing.


(b) *Terms.* (1) The Agency schedules repayment of EMs based on the useful life of the security and the type of loss.




(2) The repayment schedule must include at least one payment every year.


(3) EMs for annual farm operating and family living expenses, except expenses associated with establishing a perennial crop that are subject to paragraph (b)(4), must be repaid within 12 months. The Agency may extend this term to not more than 24 months to accommodate the production cycle of the agricultural commodities.


(4) The standard repayment term of an EM for production losses or physical losses to chattel security (including assets with an expected life between 1 and 7 years) will be equal to the useful life of the security or 7 years, whichever is less. Repayment terms less than the standard term must be requested by the applicant in writing. The Agency may extend the repayment term up to a total length not to exceed 20 years, if adequate security is available, and repayment schedules may include equal installments, or unequal installments, if needed to establish a new enterprise, develop a farm, recover from a disaster or economic reversal, or reasonably increase cash flow margin to increase working capital reserves and savings, including reasonable savings for retirement and education, and security is adequate to support the term of the loan. Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, repayment schedules must be designed to ensure the loan is fully secured for the life of the loan.


(5) The standard repayment term of an EM for physical losses to real estate will be equal to the useful life of the security or 40 years, whichever is less. Repayment terms less than the standard term must be requested by the applicant in writing. In no event will the term be more than 40 years from the date of the note, and repayment schedules may include equal installments, or unequal installments, if needed to establish a new enterprise, develop a farm, recover from a disaster or economic reversal, or reasonably increase cash flow margin to increase working capital reserves and savings, including reasonable savings for retirement and education, and security is adequate to support the term of the loan. Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, repayment schedules must be designed to ensure the loan is fully secured for the life of the loan.


(6) The first installment of an EM, for purposes other than annual farm operating and family living expenses, will be an interest-only installment scheduled 12 months from the date of loan closing. An alternative repayment agreement that schedules the first installment sooner than 12 months from the date of closing, or in an amount greater than interest-only, may be provided upon written request from the applicant, or if the Agency determines it necessary to ensure the loan is fully secured for the life of the loan.


(7) The minimum scheduled installments for the first 3 years of an EM, for purposes other than annual farm operating and family living expenses, must be the interest accrued on the principal balance. Interest-only installments may be permitted for additional years, if determined necessary by Agency, to establish a new enterprise where production income is delayed, to develop a farm, or to recover from a disaster or economic reversal.





---

[N] [72 FR 63298, Nov. 8, 2007, as amended at 86 FR 43392, Aug. 9, 2021; 89 FR 65041, Aug. 8, 2024]




