# § 522.1160   Insulin.

(a) *Specifications.* (1) Each milliliter (mL) of porcine insulin zinc suspension contains 40 international units (IU) of insulin.


(2) Each mL of protamine zinc recombinant human insulin suspension contains 40 IU of insulin.


(b) *Sponsors.* See sponsors in § 510.600 of this chapter for use as in paragraph (c) of this section.


(1) No. 000061 for use of product described in paragraph (a)(1) as in paragraphs (c)(1)(i)(A), (c)(1)(ii), (c)(1)(iii), (c)(2)(i)(A), (c)(2)(ii), and (c)(2)(iii) of this section.


(2) No. 000010 for use of product described in paragraph (a)(2) as in paragraphs (c)(1)(i)(B), (c)(1)(ii), (c)(1)(iii), (c)(2)(i)(B), (c)(2)(ii), and (c)(2)(iii) of this section.


(c) *Conditions of use*—(1) *Dogs*—(i) *Amount*—(A) *Porcine zinc insulin zinc.* Administer an initial once-daily dose of 0.5 IU per kilogram of body weight by subcutaneous injection concurrently with or right after a meal. Adjust this once-daily dose at appropriate intervals based on clinical signs, urinalysis results, and glucose curve values until adequate glycemic control has been attained. Twice-daily therapy should be initiated if the duration of insulin action is determined to be inadequate. If twice-daily treatment is initiated, the two doses should be 25 percent less than the once daily dose required to attain an acceptable nadir.


(B) *Protamine zinc recombinant human insulin.* Administer a starting dose of 0.2 to 0.5 IU/pound of body weight (0.5 to 1.0 IU/kg) once daily. When transitioning from another insulin product, this form of insulin should be started once daily, regardless of the frequency of prior insulin use. The dose should be given concurrently with or right after a meal. Reevaluate the dog at appropriate intervals and adjust the dose based on both clinical signs and laboratory test results until adequate glycemic control has been attained. Twice-daily therapy should be initiated if the duration of insulin action is determined to be inadequate. If twice-daily treatment is initiated, the two doses should be 25 percent less than the once daily dose required to attain an acceptable nadir.


(ii) *Indications for use.* For the reduction of hyperglycemia and hyperglycemia-associated clinical signs in dogs with diabetes mellitus.


(iii) *Limitations.* Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.


(2) *Cats*—(i) *Amount*—(A) *Porcine insulin zinc.* Administer an initial dose of 1 to 2 IU by subcutaneous injection. Injections should be given twice daily at approximately 12-hour intervals. For cats fed twice daily, the injections should be concurrent with or right after a meal. For cats fed ad libitum, no change in feeding is needed. Adjust the dose at appropriate intervals based on clinical signs, urinalysis results, and glucose curve values until adequate glycemic control has been attained.


(B) *Protamine zinc recombinant human insulin.* Administer an initial dose of 0.1 to 0.3 IU/pound of body weight (0.2 to 0.7 IU/kilogram) every 12 hours. The dose should be given concurrently with or right after a meal. Re-evaluate the cat at appropriate intervals and adjust the dose based on both clinical signs and glucose nadirs until adequate glycemic control has been attained.


(ii) *Indications for use.* For the reduction of hyperglycemia and hyperglycemia-associated clinical signs in cats with diabetes mellitus.


(iii) *Limitations.* Federal law restricts this drug to use by or on the order of a licensed veterinarian.



---

[N] [69 FR 25827, May 10, 2004, as amended at 73 FR 21042, Apr. 18, 2008; 74 FR 61517, Nov. 25, 2009; 74 FR 66048, Dec. 14, 2009; 84 FR 39184, Aug. 9, 2019]




