# ยง 53.5   Definitions.

As used in this part, the following terms shall have the meaning stated, except as otherwise provided:


*Board for Correction of Military Records of the Coast Guard.* The Department of Homeland Security Board for Correction of Military Records of the Coast Guard (Board) is empowered under 10 U.S.C. 1552 to make corrections of Coast Guard military records. The Board is part of the Office of the General Counsel in the Office of the Secretary of Homeland Security.


*Chain of Command.* The succession of commanding officers from a superior to a subordinate through which command is exercised; and the succession of officers, enlisted members, or civilian personnel through whom administrative control is exercised, including supervision and rating of performance.


*Corrective Action.* Any action deemed necessary to make the complainant whole, changes in agency regulations or practices, and/or administrative or disciplinary action against offending personnel, or referral to the U.S. Attorney General or courtmartial convening authority of any evidence of criminal violation. 


*Inspector General.* The Inspector General in the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Homeland Security, or any other Inspector General, as appointed under the Inspector General Act of 1978.


*Judge Advocate.* A commissioned officer of the Coast Guard designated for the special duty of law.


*Member of the Coast Guard.* Any past or present Coast Guard uniformed personnel, officer or enlisted, regular or reserve. This definition includes cadets of the Coast Guard Academy.


*Member of Congress.* In addition to a Representative or a Senator, the term includes any Delegate or Resident Commissioner to Congress.


*Personnel Action.* Any action taken regarding a member of the Coast Guard that adversely affects or has the potential to adversely affect the member's position or his or her career. Such actions include, but are not limited to, a disciplinary or other corrective action; a transfer or reassignment; a performance evaluation; or a decision concerning a promotion, pay, benefits, awards, or training.


*Protected Communication.* Any lawful communication to a Member of Congress or an Inspector General; or a communication in which a member of the Coast Guard communicates information that the member reasonably believes evidences a violation of law or regulation (including sexual harassment or discrimination), gross mismanagement, a gross waste of funds or other resources, an abuse of authority, or a substantial and specific danger to public health or safety, when such communication is made to any of the following: A Member of Congress; an Inspector General; a member of a Department of Defense or Department of Homeland Security audit, inspection, investigation, or law enforcement organization (*e.g.,* the Coast Guard Investigative Service); any person or organization in the chain of command; and any other person or organization designated pursuant to regulations or other established administrative procedures to receive such communications.


*Reprisal.* Taking or threatening to take an unfavorable personnel action, or withholding or threatening to withhold a favorable personnel action, against a member of the Coast Guard for making or preparing to make a protected communication.


*Secretary.* The Secretary of Homeland Security or his or her delegate.



---

[N] [56 FR 13405, Apr. 2, 1991, as amended by USCG-2003-14505, 68 FR 9535, Feb. 28, 2003; USCG-2009-0239, 75 FR 79959, Dec. 21, 2010]




