# ยง 200.301   Performance measurement.

(a) The Federal agency must measure the recipient's performance to show achievement of program goals and objectives, share lessons learned, improve program outcomes, and foster the adoption of promising practices. The Federal agency should establish program goals and objectives during program planning and design (see ยง 200.202). The Federal agency should clearly communicate the specific program goals and objectives in the Federal award, including how the Federal agency will measure the achievement of the goals and objectives, the expected timeline, and information on how the recipient must report the achievement of program goals and objectives. The Federal agency should also clearly communicate in the Federal award any expected outcomes (such as outputs, service performance, or public impacts of any of these), indicators, targets, baseline data, or data collections that the recipient is responsible for measuring and reporting. The Federal agency must ensure all requirements for measuring performance align with the Federal agency's strategic goals, strategic objectives, or performance goals relevant to a program (see OMB Circular A-11, Preparation, Submission, and Execution of the Budget Part 6).


(b) When establishing performance reporting frequency and content, the Federal agency should consider what information will be necessary to measure the recipient's progress, to identify promising practices of recipients, and build the evidence upon which the Federal agency makes program and performance decisions. The Federal agency should not require additional information that is not necessary for measuring program performance and evaluation. See ยง 200.329 for more information on reporting program performance.


(c) The Federal agency should also specify in the Federal award any requirements of the recipients' participation in federally funded evaluations.






