# ยง 180.337   Oxytetracycline; tolerances for residues.

(a) *General.* Tolerances are established for residues of the fungicide/bactericide oxytetracycline, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities in the table in this paragraph. Compliance with the tolerance levels specified in this paragraph is to be determined by measuring only oxytetracycline, (4S,4aR,5S,5aR,6S,12aS)-4-(dimethylamino)-1,4,4a,5,5a,6,11,12a-octahydro-3,5,6,10,12,12a-hexahydroxy-6-methyl-1,11-dioxo-2-naphthacenecarboxamide, in or on the commodity.


(b) *Section 18 emergency exemptions.* Time-limited tolerances specified in the following table are established for residues of the fungicide/bactericide oxytetracycline, including its metabolites and degradates, in or on the commodities in the table in this paragraph. Compliance with the tolerance levels specified in this paragraph is to be determined by measuring only oxytetracycline, (4S,4aR,5S,5aR,6S,12aS)-4-(dimethylamino)-1,4,4a,5,5a,6,11,12a-octahydro-3,5,6,10,12,12a-hexahydroxy-6-methyl-1,11-dioxo-2-naphthacenecarboxamide, in or on the specified agricultural commodities, resulting from use of the pesticide pursuant to FIFRA section 18 emergency exemptions. The tolerances expire on the dates specified in the table.


(c) *Tolerances with regional registrations.* [Reserved]


(d) *Indirect or inadvertent residues.* [Reserved]



---

[N] [76 FR 23493, Apr. 27, 2011, as amended at 82 FR 13251, Mar. 10, 2017; 83 FR 62493, Dec. 4, 2018]




