# § 69.52   Non-motor vehicle diesel fuel.

(a) *Definitions.* (1) *Areas accessible by the Federal Aid Highway System* are the geographical areas of Alaska designated by the State of Alaska as being accessible by the Federal Aid Highway System.


(2) *Areas not accessible by the Federal Aid Highway System* are all other geographical areas of Alaska.


(3) *Nonroad, locomotive, or marine diesel fuel (NRLM)* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 80.2.


(4) *Heating oil* has the meaning given in 40 CFR 80.2.


(b) *Applicability.* NRLM diesel fuel and heating oil that are used or intended for use in areas of Alaska accessible by the Federal Aid Highway System are subject to the provisions of 40 CFR part 80, subpart I, except as provided in paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of this section.


(c) *Dye and marker.* (1) NRLM diesel fuel and heating oil referred to in paragraphs (b) and (g) of this section are exempt from the red dye requirements, and the presumptions associated with the red dye requirements, under 40 CFR 80.520(b)(2) and 80.510(d)(5), (e)(5), and (f)(5).


(2) NRLM diesel fuel and heating oil referred to in paragraphs (b) and (g) of this section are exempt from the marker solvent yellow 124 requirements, and the presumptions associated with the marker solvent yellow 124 requirements, under 40 CFR 80.510(d) through (f).


(3) Exempt NRLM diesel fuel and heating oil must be segregated from all non-exempt NRLM diesel fuel and heating oil.


(4) Exempt heating oil must be segregated from exempt NRLM diesel fuel unless it also meets the standards of 40 CFR 80.510 applicable to the NRLM diesel fuel.


(5) Exempt NRLM diesel fuel and heating oil must be segregated from motor vehicle diesel fuel, unless it also meets the standards of 40 CFR 80.520 applicable to the motor vehicle diesel fuel.


(d) *Product transfer documents.* Product Transfer Documents for exempt NRLM diesel fuel and heating oil shall include the language specified in 40 CFR 80.590(a) applicable to undyed diesel fuel for the appropriate sulfur level, and the following additional language as applicable:


(1) For exempt NRLM diesel fuel and heating oil, including commingled fuel under paragraph (c)(4) or (c)(5) of this section: “Exempt from red dye requirement applicable to diesel fuel for non-highway purposes if it is used only in Alaska.”


(2) For exempt heating oil, including commingled fuel under paragraph (c)(4) or (c)(5) of this section: “Exempt from marker solvent yellow 124 requirement applicable to heating oil if it is used only in Alaska.”


(3) For exempt 500 ppm sulfur LM diesel fuel, including commingled fuel under paragraph (c)(4) or (c)(5) of this section: “Exempt from marker solvent yellow 124 requirement applicable to 500 ppm sulfur LM diesel fuel if it is used only in Alaska.”


(e) *Pump labels.* (1) Pump labels for exempt NRLM diesel fuel and heating oil shall contain the language specified in 40 CFR 80.570 through 80.574 for the applicable fuel type and time frame, unless the fuel is commingled under paragraph (c)(4) or (c)(5) of this section.


(2) Pump labels for exempt NRLM diesel fuel and heating oil that are commingled shall contain the language specified in 40 CFR 80.570 through 80.574 for NRLM diesel fuel and the applicable time frame.


(3) Pump labels for exempt NRLM diesel fuel and heating oil that are commingled with motor vehicle diesel fuel shall contain the following language for the applicable sulfur level and time frame:


(i) *500 ppm sulfur diesel fuel.* From June 1, 2006 through September 30, 2010.


(ii) *15 ppm sulfur diesel fuel.* From June 1, 2006 through May 31, 2010. 


(iii) *15 ppm sulfur diesel fuel.* From June 1, 2010, and beyond, 


(f) Non-motor vehicle diesel fuel and heating oil that is intended for use and used only in areas of Alaska not accessible by the Federal Aid Highway System, are excluded from the applicable provisions of 40 CFR part 80, subpart I and 40 CFR part 60, subpart IIII until the implementation dates specified in paragraph (g) of this section, except that:


(1) All model year 2011 and later nonroad and stationary diesel engines and equipment must be fueled only with diesel fuel that meets the specifications for NR fuel in 40 CFR 80.510(b) or (c);


(2) The following language shall be added to any product transfer document: “This fuel is for use only in those areas of Alaska not accessible by the FAHS;” and


(3) Pump labels for such fuel that does not meet the specifications of 40 CFR 80.510(b) or 80.510(c) shall contain the following language:


(g) *NRLM and stationary engine standards.* (1) Beginning on the following implementation dates, NRLM diesel fuel that is used or intended for use in areas of Alaska not accessible by the Federal Aid Highway System is subject to the provisions of 40 CFR part 80, subpart I, except as provided in paragraphs (c), (d), (e), and (g)(2) of this section:


(i) June 1, 2010 or diesel fuel produced or imported by any refiner or importer,


(ii) August 1, 2010 at all downstream locations, except at retail facilities and wholesale-purchaser consumers,


(iii) October 1, 2010 at retail facilities and wholesale-purchaser consumers, and


(iv) December 1, 2010 at all locations.


(2) The per-gallon sulfur content standard for all LM diesel fuel shall be 15 ppm maximum.


(3) Diesel fuel used in new stationary internal combustion engines regulated under 40 CFR part 60 shall be subject to the fuel-related provisions of that subpart beginning December 1, 2010.


(h) Alternative labels to those specified in paragraphs (e)(3) and (f)(2) of this section may be used as approved by EPA.



---

[N] [69 FR 39165, June 29, 2004, as amended at 71 FR 32463, June 6, 2006]




