# § 62.14525   Can my combustion unit be exempt from this subpart?

This subpart exempts 15 types of units described in paragraphs (a) through (o) of this section from complying with the requirements of this subpart except for the requirements specified in this section and in § 62.14531. 


(a) *Pathological waste incineration units.* Incineration units burning 90 percent or more by weight (on a calendar quarter basis and excluding the weight of auxiliary fuel and combustion air) of pathological waste, low-level radioactive waste, and/or chemotherapeutic waste as defined in § 62.14840 are not subject to this subpart if you meet the two requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section. 


(1) Notify the Administrator that the unit meets these criteria. 


(2) Keep records on a calendar quarter basis of the weight of pathological waste, low-level radioactive waste, and/or chemotherapeutic waste burned, and the weight of all other fuels and wastes burned in the unit. 


(b) *Agricultural waste incineration units.* Incineration units burning 90 percent or more by weight (on a calendar quarter basis and excluding the weight of auxiliary fuel and combustion air) of agricultural wastes as defined in § 62.14840 are not subject to this subpart if you meet the two requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section. 


(1) Notify the Administrator that the unit meets these criteria. 


(2) Keep records on a calendar quarter basis of the weight of agricultural waste burned, and the weight of all other fuels and wastes burned in the unit. 


(c) *Municipal waste combustion units.* Incineration units that meet either of the two criteria specified in paragraphs (c)(1) or (2) of this section. 


(1) Units that are regulated under subpart Ea of 40 CFR part 60 (Standards of Performance for Municipal Waste Combustors); subpart Eb of 40 CFR part 60 (Standards of Performance for Municipal Waste Combustors for Which Construction is Commenced After September 20, 1994); subpart Cb of 40 CFR part 60 (Emission Guidelines and Compliance Times for Large Municipal Waste Combustors Constructed on or Before September 20, 1994); subpart AAAA of 40 CFR part 60 (Standards of Performance for New Stationary Sources: Small Municipal Waste Combustion Units); subpart BBBB of 40 CFR part 60 (Emission Guidelines for Existing Stationary Sources: Small Municipal Waste Combustion Units); or subpart JJJ of 40 CFR part 62 (Federal Plan Requirements for Small Municipal Waste Combustion Units Constructed on or Before August 30, 1999). 


(2) Units that burn greater than 30 percent municipal solid waste or refuse-derived fuel, as defined in 40 CFR part 60 subpart Ea, subpart Eb, subpart AAAA, and subpart BBBB, and that have the capacity to burn less than 35 tons (32 megagrams) per day of municipal solid waste or refuse-derived fuel, if you meet the two requirements in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. 


(i) Notify the Administrator that the unit meets these criteria. 


(ii) Keep records on a calendar quarter basis of the weight of municipal solid waste burned, and the weight of all other fuels and wastes burned in the unit. 


(d) *Medical waste incineration units.* Incineration units regulated under subpart Ec of 40 CFR part 60 (Standards of Performance for Hospital/Medical/Infectious Waste Incinerators for Which Construction is Commenced After June 20, 1996); 40 CFR part 60 subpart Ce (Emission Guidelines and Compliance Times for Hospital/Medical/Infectious Waste Incinerators); and 40 CFR part 62 subpart HHH (Federal Plan Requirements for Hospital/Medical/Infectious Waste Incinerators Constructed on or before June 20, 1996). 


(e) *Small power production facilities.* Units that meet the three requirements specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section. 


(1) The unit qualifies as a small power-production facility under section 3(17)(C) of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 796(17)(C)). 


(2) The unit burns homogeneous waste (not including refuse-derived fuel) to produce electricity. 


(3) You notify the Administrator that the unit meets all of these criteria. 


(f) *Cogeneration facilities.* Units that meet the three requirements specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (3) of this section. 


(1) The unit qualifies as a cogeneration facility under section 3(18)(B) of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 796(18)(B)). 


(2) The unit burns homogeneous waste (not including refuse-derived fuel) to produce electricity and steam or other forms of energy used for industrial, commercial, heating, or cooling purposes. 


(3) You notify the Administrator that the unit meets all of these criteria. 


(g) *Hazardous waste combustion units.* Units regulated under subpart EEE of part 63 (National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Hazardous Waste Combustors). 


(h) *Materials recovery units.* Units that combust waste for the primary purpose of recovering metals, such as primary and secondary smelters. 


(i) *Air curtain incinerators.* Air curtain incinerators that burn 100 percent wood waste; 100 percent clean lumber; or a 100 percent mixture of only wood waste, clean lumber, and/or yard waste; are required to meet only the requirements under “Air Curtain Incinerators That Burn 100 Percent Wood Wastes, Clean Lumber and/or Yard Waste” (§§ 62.14765 through 62.14825) and the title V operating permit requirements (§§ 62.14830 and 62.14835). 


(j) *Cyclonic barrel burners.*

(k) *Rack, part, and drum reclamation units.*

(l) *Cement kilns.*

(m) *Sewage sludge incinerators.* Incineration units regulated under subpart O of 40 CFR part 60 (Standards of Performance for Sewage Treatment Plants). 


(n) *Chemical recovery units.* Combustion units burning materials to recover chemical constituents or to produce chemical compounds where there is an existing commercial market for such recovered chemical constituents or compounds. The eight types of units described in paragraphs (n)(1) through (8) of this section are considered chemical recovery units. 


(1) Units burning only pulping liquors (*i.e.,* black liquor) that are reclaimed in a pulping liquor recovery process and reused in the pulping process. 


(2) Units burning only spent sulfuric acid used to produce virgin sulfuric acid. 


(3) Units burning only wood or coal feedstock for the production of charcoal. 


(4) Units burning only manufacturing byproduct streams/residues containing catalyst metals which are reclaimed and reused as catalysts or used to produce commercial grade catalysts. 


(5) Units burning only coke to produce purified carbon monoxide that is used as an intermediate in the production of other chemical compounds. 


(6) Units burning only hydrocarbon liquids or solids to produce hydrogen, carbon monoxide, synthesis gas, or other gases for use in other manufacturing processes. 


(7) Units burning only photographic film to recover silver. 


(8) Units granted exemptions resulting from petitions submitted under the provisions of either § 60.2025 or § 60.2558. 


(o) *Laboratory units.* Units that burn samples of materials for the purpose of chemical or physical analysis. 




