# § 800.160   Official certificates; issuance and distribution.

(a) *Required issuance.* An official certificate shall be issued for each inspection service and each weighing service except as provided §§ 800.84, 800.129, and 800.139 and paragraph (b) of this section.


(b) *Distribution*—(1) *General*—(i) *Export.* The original and at least three copies of each certificate will be distributed to the applicant or applicant's order. One copy of each certificate shall be retained by the agency, field office, or Board of Appeals and Review.


(ii) *Nonexport.* The original and at least one copy of each certificate will be distributed to the applicant or to the applicant's order. In the case of inbound trucklot grain, one copy shall be delivered by the applicant to the person who owned the grain at the time of delivery. One copy of each certificate shall be retained by the agency, field office, or Board of Appeals and Review.


(iii) *Local movements of shiplot grain.* When shiplot grain is offered for inspection as a single lot and a portion of the lot is returned to the elevator, certificates representing the inspection service shall not be issued unless (A) requested by the applicant or (B) deemed necessary by official personnel.


(2) *Reinspection and appeal inspection services.* In addition to the distribution requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, one copy of each reinspection or appeal inspection certificate shall be distributed to each interested person of record or the interested person's order and to the agency or field office that issued the superseded certificate.


(3) *Additional copies.* Additional copies of certificates will be furnished to the applicant or interested person upon request. Fees for extra copies may be assessed according to the fee schedules established by the agency or the Service.


(c) *Prompt issuance.* The results of the inspection or weighing service shall be reported to the applicant on the date the inspection or weighing service is completed. Certificates shall be issued as soon as possible, but no later than the close of business on the next business day. Upon request of an agency or a field office, the requirements of this paragraph may be waived by the Service when results have been reported before issuing the certificate.


(d) *Who may issue certificates*—(1) *Authority.* Certificates for inspection or Class X weighing services may be issued only be official personnel who are specifically licensed or authorized to perform and certify the results reported on the certificate. Certificates for Class Y weighing services may be issued only by individuals who are licensed or authorized or are approved to perform and certify the results.


(2) *Exception.* The person in the best position to know whether the service was performed in an approved manner and that the determinations are accurate and true should issue the certificate. If the service is performed by one person, the certificate should be issued by that person. If the service is performed by two or more persons, the certificate should be issued by the person who made the majority of the determinations or the person who makes the final determination. Supervisory personnel may issue a certificate when the individual is licensed or authorized to perform the service being certificated.


(e) *Name requirement.* On export certificates, the typewritten name and signature of the individual issuing the certificate shall appear on the original and all copies. On all other certificates, the name or signature of the individual issuing the certificate shall appear on the original and all copies. Upon request by the applicant, the name and signature may be shown on all other certificates.


(f) *Authorization to affix names*—(1) *Requirements.* The name or signature of official personnel may be affixed to official certificates which are prepared from work records signed or initialed by the person whose name will be shown. An agent affixing the name and signature shall (i) be employed by the agency or Service; (ii) have been designated to affix names and signatures; and (iii) hold a power of attorney from the person whose name and signature will be affixed. The power of attorney shall be on file with the agency or Service.


(2) *Initialing.* When a name or signature is affixed by an authorized agent, the initials of the agent shall appear directly below or following the signature of the person.


(g) *Advance information.* Upon request, the contents of an official certificate may be furnished in advance to the applicant and any other interested party, or to their order, and any additional expense shall be borne by the requesting party.


(h) *Certification after dismissal.* An official certificate cannot be issued for a service after the request has been withdrawn or dismissed.



---

[N] [50 FR 45396, Oct. 31, 1985, as amended at 57 FR 11428, Apr. 3, 1992]




