# § 155.610   Eligibility process for exemptions.

(a) *Application.* Except as specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the Exchange must use an application established by HHS to collect information necessary for determining eligibility for and granting certificates of exemption as described in § 155.605.


(b) *Alternative application.* If the Exchange seeks to use an alternative application, such application, as approved by HHS, must request the minimum information necessary for the purposes identified in paragraph (a) of this section.


(c) *Exemptions through the eligibility process for coverage.* If an individual submits the application described in § 155.405 and then requests an exemption, the Exchange must use information collected for purposes of the eligibility determination for enrollment in a QHP and for insurance affordability programs in making the exemption eligibility determination, and must not request duplicate information or conduct repeat verifications to the extent that the Exchange finds that such information is still applicable, where the standards for such verifications adhere to the standards specified in this subpart.


(d) *Filing the exemption application.* The Exchange must—


(1) Accept the application from an application filer; and


(2) Provide the tools to file an application.


(3) For applications submitted before October 15, 2014, the Exchange must, at a minimum, accept the application by mail.


(e) *Collection of Social Security numbers.* (1) The Exchange must require an applicant who has a Social Security number to provide such number to the Exchange.


(2) The Exchange may not require an individual who is not seeking an exemption for himself or herself to provide a Social Security number, except as specified in paragraph (e)(3) of this section.


(3) The Exchange must require an application filer to provide the Social Security number of a tax filer who is not an applicant only if an applicant attests that the tax filer has a Social Security number and filed a tax return for the year for which tax data would be utilized for verification of household income and family size for an exemption under § 155.605(g)(2) that requires such verification.


(f) *Determination of eligibility; granting of certificates.* The Exchange must determine an applicant's eligibility for an exemption in accordance with the standards specified in § 155.605, and grant a certificate of exemption to any applicant determined eligible.


(g) *Timeliness standards.* (1) The Exchange must determine eligibility for exemption promptly and without undue delay.


(2) The Exchange must assess the timeliness of eligibility determinations made under this subpart based on the period from the date of application to the date the Exchange notifies the applicant of its decision.


(h) *Exemptions for previous tax years.* (1) Except for the exemptions described in § 155.605(c) and (d), after December 31 of a given calendar year, the Exchange may decline to accept an application for an exemption that is available retrospectively for months for such calendar year, and must provide information to individuals regarding how to claim an exemption through the tax filing process.


(2) The Exchange will only accept an application for an exemption described in § 155.605(d)(1) during one of the 3 calendar years after the month or months during which the applicant attests that the hardship occurred.


(i) *Notification of eligibility determination for exemptions.* The Exchange must provide timely written notice to an applicant of any eligibility determination made in accordance with this subpart. In the case of a determination that an applicant is eligible for an exemption, this notification must include the exemption certificate number for the purposes of tax administration.


(j) *Retention of records for tax compliance.* (1) An Exchange must notify an individual to retain the records that demonstrate receipt of the certificate of exemption and qualification for the underlying exemption.


(2) In the case of any factor of eligibility that is verified through use of the special circumstances exception described in § 155.615(h), the records that demonstrate qualification for the underlying exemption are the information submitted to the Exchange regarding the circumstances that warranted the use of the exception, as well as records of the Exchange decision to allow such exception.


(k) *Incomplete application.* (1) If an applicant submits an application that does not include sufficient information for the Exchange to conduct a determination for eligibility of an exemption the Exchange must—


(i) Provide notice to the applicant indicating that information necessary to complete an eligibility determination is missing, specifying the missing information, and providing instructions on how to provide the missing information; and


(ii) Provide the applicant with a period of no less than 30 and no more than 90 days, in the reasonable discretion of the Exchange, from the date on which the notice described in paragraph (k)(1) of this section is sent to the applicant to provide the information needed to complete the application to the Exchange; and


(iii) Not proceed with the applicant's eligibility determination during the period described in paragraph (k)(2) of this section.


(2) If the Exchange does not receive the requested information within the time allotted in paragraph (k)(1)(ii) of this section, the Exchange must notify the applicant in writing that the Exchange cannot process the application and provide appeal rights to the applicant.



---

[N] [78 FR 39523, July 1, 2013, as amended at 81 FR 12346, Mar. 8, 2016; 83 FR 17064, Apr. 17, 2018]




