# ยง 2423.25   Post complaint, prehearing settlements.

(a) *Informal and formal settlements.* Post complaint settlements may be either informal or formal. 


(1) Informal settlement agreements provide for withdrawal of the complaint by the Regional Director and are not subject to approval by or an order of the Authority. If the Respondent fails to perform its obligations under the informal settlement agreement, the Regional Director may reinstitute formal proceedings consistent with this subpart. 


(2) Formal settlement agreements are subject to approval by the Authority, and include the parties' agreement to waive their right to a hearing and acknowledgment that the Authority may issue an order requiring the Respondent to take action appropriate to the terms of the settlement. The formal settlement agreement shall also contain the Respondent's consent to the Authority's application for the entry of a decree by an appropriate federal court enforcing the Authority's order. 


(b) *Informal settlement procedure.* If the Charging Party and the Respondent enter into an informal settlement agreement that is accepted by the Regional Director, the Regional Director shall withdraw the complaint and approve the informal settlement agreement. If the Charging Party fails or refuses to become a party to an informal settlement agreement offered by the Respondent, and the Regional Director concludes that the offered settlement will effectuate the policies of the Federal Service Labor-Management Relations Statute, the Regional Director shall enter into the agreement with the Respondent and shall withdraw the complaint. The Charging Party then may obtain a review of the Regional Director's action by filing an appeal with the General Counsel as provided in subpart A of this part. 


(c) *Formal settlement procedure.* If the Charging Party and the Respondent enter into a formal settlement agreement that is accepted by the Regional Director, the Regional Director shall withdraw the complaint upon approval of the formal settlement agreement by the Authority. If the Charging Party fails or refuses to become a party to a formal settlement agreement offered by the Respondent, and the Regional Director concludes that the offered settlement will effectuate the policies of the Federal Service Labor-Management Relations Statute, the agreement shall be between the Respondent and the Regional Director. The formal settlement agreement together with the Charging Party's objections, if any, shall be submitted to the Authority for approval. The Authority may approve a formal settlement agreement upon a sufficient showing that it will effectuate the policies of the Federal Service Labor-Management Relations Statute. 


(d) *Settlement judge program.* The Administrative Law Judge, in the Judge's discretion or upon the request of any party, may assign a judge or other appropriate official, who shall be other than the hearing judge unless otherwise mutually agreed to by the parties, to conduct negotiations for settlement. 


(1) The settlement official shall convene and preside over settlement conferences by telephone or in person. 


(2) The settlement official may require that the representative for each party be present at settlement conferences and that the parties or agents with full settlement authority be present or available by telephone. 


(3) The settlement official shall not discuss any aspect of the case with the hearing judge. 


(4) No evidence regarding statements, conduct, offers of settlement, and concessions of the parties made in proceedings before the settlement official shall be admissible in any proceeding before the Administrative Law Judge or Authority, except by stipulation of the parties. 




