# § 114.1   Definitions.

The following are general definitions for the purpose of part 114:


(a) *Commissioner.* “Commissioner” means the Commissioner of Customs.


(b) *Issuing association.* “Issuing association” means an association approved by the Commissioner for the issue of carnets in the Customs territory of the United States under a Customs Convention or bilateral Agreement to which the United States has acceded.


(c) *Guaranteeing association.* “Guaranteeing association” means an association approved by the Commissioner to guarantee the payment of obligations under carnets covering merchandise entering the Customs territory of the United States under a Customs Convention or bilateral Agreement to which the United States has acceded.


(d) *A.T.A. carnet.* “A.T.A. carnet” (Admission Temporaire—Temporary Admission) means the document reproduced as the Annex to the Customs Convention on the A.T.A. Carnet for the Temporary Admission of Goods (TIAS 6631).


(e) [Reserved]


(f) *TIR carnet.* “TIR carnet” (Transport International Routier) means the document reproduced as Annex 1 to the Customs Convention on the International Transport of Goods under Cover of TIR Carnets.


(g) *TECRO/AIT Carnet.* “TECRO/AIT carnet” means the document issued pursuant to the Bilateral Agreement between the Taipei Economic and Cultural Representative Office (TECRO) and the American Institute in Taiwan (AIT) to cover the temporary admission of goods.



---

[N] [T.D. 70-134, 35 FR 9261, June 13, 1970, as amended by T.D. 71-70, 36 FR 4490, Mar. 6, 1971; T.D. 82-116, 47 FR 27262, June 24, 1982; T.D. 85-180, 50 FR 42517, Oct. 21, 1985; T.D. 98-10, 63 FR 4168, Jan. 28, 1998]




