# ยง 202.115   Rule 15: Submission for final consideration.

(a) *Report.* The presiding officer, with the assistance and collaboration of such employees of the Department as may be assigned for the purpose, shall prepare a report. The report shall be prepared on the basis of the evidence in the record, including the investigation report if one is prepared by the agency head and served on the parties, and any allegations admitted or deemed to be admitted, and any stipulations. The report shall be prepared in the form of a final order for signature by the judicial officer, and shall be filed with the hearing clerk. The report shall not be served on the parties unless and until it is signed by the judicial officer. 


(b) *Record.* At the same time as the report is filed with the hearing clerk, the record shall also be filed with the hearing clerk. The record shall include: Pleadings; motions and requests filed and rulings thereon; the investigation report if one is prepared by the agency head and served on the parties; the transcript or recording of an oral hearing, and exhibits received, if an oral hearing was held; evidence filed by the parties if a written hearing was held; documents filed in connection with pre-hearing conferences; any proposed findings of fact, conclusions and orders, statements of objections, and briefs; any stipulations; and proof of service. 


(c) *Submission to judicial officer.* Unless the hearing clerk reasonably believes that the record is not complete and in proper order, the record and the report shall be submitted to the judicial officer for decision. 


(d) *Oral argument.* There shall be no right to oral argument other than that provided in rule 12(h), ยง 202.112(h).



---

[N] [43 FR 30510, July 14, 1978, as amended at 60 FR 8467, Feb. 14, 1995]




