# § 7101.102   Prior approval for outside employment.

(a) *General Requirement.* Before engaging in compensated or uncompensated outside employment, an employee must obtain written approval:


(1) From the Board of General Counsel to engage in the private practice of law; or 


(2) From the employee's Chief Counsel, Regional Director, Branch Chief, or the equivalent for outside employment not involving the practice of law.


(b) *Procedure for requesting approval* (1) The approval required by paragraph (a) of this section shall be requested in writing in advance of engaging in outside employment, including the outside practice of law.


(2) The request for approval to engage in the outside practice of law or in other outside employment shall be submitted to the appropriate official as set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, and shall set forth, at a minimum:


(i) The name of the employer;


(ii) The nature of the legal activity or other work to be performed;


(iii) The estimated duration; and


(iv) The amount of compensation to be received.


(3) Upon a significant change in the nature of scope of the outside employment or in the employee's official position, the employee shall submit a revised request for approval.


(c) *Standard for approval.* (1) Approval shall be granted unless the agency designee determines that the outside employment is expected to involve conduct prohibited by statute or Federal regulation, including 5 CFR part 2635.


(2) The agency designee may consult with the Designated Agency Ethics Official to ensure that the request for outside employment meets the standard in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.


(d) *Definition of employment.* For purposes of this section, “employment” means any form of non-Federal employment or business relationship involving the provision of personal services by the employee. It includes, but is not limited to personal services as an officer, director, employee, agent, attorney, consultant, contractor, general partner, trustee, teacher, or speaker. It includes writing when done under an arrangement with another person for production or publication of the written product. It does not, however, include participation in the activities of a nonprofit charitable, religious, professional, social, fraternal, educational, recreational, public service or civic organization, unless such activities involve the provision of professional services or advice or are for compensation other than reimbursement of expenses.




