# ยง 1.2   Definitions.

As defined in the Privacy Act of 1974 and for the purposes of this part, unless otherwise required by the context, the following terms shall have these meanings:


*Act* means the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971, as amended and chapters 95 and 96 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954.




*Commission* means the Federal Election Commission, its Commissioners and employees. For purposes of U.S. Postal Service delivery, the Commission's address is 1050 First Street NE, Washington, DC 20463. For purposes of physical location as well as for all other deliveries, including by courier or by private delivery service such as FedEx or UPS, the Commission's address is 1050 First Street NE, Washington, DC 20002. The Commission's website is *www.fec.gov.*

*Commissioner* means an individual appointed to the Federal Election Commission pursuant to 52 U.S.C. 30106(a).


*Individual* means a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence.


*Maintain* includes maintain, collect, use or disseminate.


*Record* means any item, collection, or grouping of information about an individual that is maintained by an agency, including but not limited to his or her education, financial transactions, medical history, and criminal or employment history and that contains his or her name, or the identifying number, symbol or other identifying particular assigned to the individual, such as finger or voice print or a photograph.


*Routine use* means the use of such record for a purpose compatible with the purpose for which the information was collected.


*Systems of Records* means a group of any records under the control of the Federal Election Commission from which information is retrieved by the name of the individual or by some identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual.



---

[N] [41 FR 43064, Sept. 29, 1976, as amended at 75 FR 30, Jan. 4, 2010; 79 FR 77843, Dec. 29, 2014; 82 FR 60852, Dec. 26, 2017; 83 FR 10358, Mar. 9, 2018; 86 FR 72784, Dec. 23, 2021; 89 FR 19729, Mar. 20, 2024]




