# § 50.7   Applications: exhibits.

Each exhibit must contain a title page showing the applicant's name, the title of the exhibit, and the proper letter designation of the exhibit. If an exhibit is 10 or more pages in length, it must include a table of contents citing (by page, section number, or subdivision) the component elements or matters contained in the exhibit.


(a) *Exhibit A—Articles of incorporation and bylaws.* If the applicant is not an individual, a conformed copy of its articles of incorporation and bylaws, or other similar documents.


(b) *Exhibit B—State authorization.* For each State where the applicant is authorized to do business, a statement showing the date of authorization, the scope of the business the applicant is authorized to carry on and all limitations, if any, including expiration dates and renewal obligations. A conformed copy of applicant's authorization to do business in each State affected must be supplied upon request.


(c) *Exhibit C—Company officials.* A list of the names and business addresses of the applicant's officers and directors, or similar officials if the applicant is not a corporation.


(d) *Exhibit D—Other pending applications and filings.* A list of other applications and filings submitted by the applicant that are pending before the Commission at the time of the filing of an application and that directly and significantly affect the proposed project, including an explanation of any material effect the grant or denial of those other applications and filings will have on the application and of any material effect the grant or denial of the application will have on those other applications and filings.


(e) *Exhibit E—Maps of general location of facilities.* The general location map required under § 50.5(c) must be provided as Exhibit E. Detailed maps required by other exhibits must be filed in those exhibits, in a format determined during the pre-filing process in § 50.5.


(f) *Exhibit F—Environmental report.* An environmental report as specified in §§ 380.3 and 380.16 of this chapter. The applicant must submit all appropriate revisions to Exhibit F whenever route or site changes are filed. These revisions must identify the locations by mile post and describe all other specific differences resulting from the route or site changes, and should not simply provide revised totals for the resources affected. The format of the environmental report filing will be determined during the pre-filing process required under § 50.5.


(g) *Exhibit G—Engineering data.*

(1) A detailed project description including:


(i) Name, point of receipt, and point of delivery of the project;


(ii) Design voltage rating (kV);


(iii) Operating voltage rating (kV);


(iv) Normal peak operating current rating;


(v) Line design features for minimizing television and/or radio interference cause by operation of the proposed facilities; and


(vi) Line design features that minimize audible corona noise during fog/rain caused by operation of the proposed facilities.


(2) A conductor, structures, and substations description including:


(i) Conductor size and type;


(ii) Type of structures, including overhead and underground structures;


(iii) Height of typical structures;


(iv) An explanation why these structures were selected;


(v) Dimensional drawings of the typical structures to be used in the project; and


(vi) A list of the names of all new (and existing, if applicable) substations or switching stations that will be associated with the proposed transmission line.


(3) The location of the site and right-of-way including:


(i) Miles of right-of-way;


(ii) Miles of circuit;


(iii) Width of the right-of-way; and


(iv) A brief description of the area traversed by the proposed transmission line, including a description of the general land uses in the area and the type of terrain crossed by the proposed line;


(4) Assumptions, bases, formulae, and methods used in the development and preparation of the diagrams and accompanying data, and a technical description providing the following information:


(i) Number of circuits, with identification as to whether the circuit is overhead or underground;


(ii) The operating voltage and frequency; and


(iii) Conductor size, conductor type, and number of conductors per phase.


(5) If the proposed project includes an overhead transmission line, the following additional information also must be provided:


(i) The wind and ice loading design parameters;


(ii) A full description and drawing of a typical supporting structure including strength specifications;


(iii) Structure spacing with typical ruling and maximum spans;


(iv) Conductor (phase) spacing; and


(v) The designed line-to-ground and conductor-side clearances.


(6) If an underground or underwater transmission line is proposed, the following additional information also must be provided:


(i) Burial depth;


(ii) Type of cable and a description of any required supporting equipment, such as pressurizing plants;


(iii) Cathodic protection scheme; and


(iv) Type of dielectric fluid and safeguards used to limit potential spills in waterways.


(7) Technical diagrams that provide clarification of any of the above items should be included.


(8) Any other data or information identified as a minimum requirement for the siting of a transmission line in the State in which the facility will be located.


(h) *Exhibit H—System analysis data.* An analysis evaluating the impact the proposed facilities will have on the existing electric transmission system performance, including:


(1) An analysis of the existing and expected capacity constraints and congestion on the electric transmission system.


(2) Steady-state, short-circuit, and dynamic power flow cases, as applicable, used to analyze the existing transmission system, proposed project, and future transmission system under anticipated load growth, operating conditions, variations in power import and export levels, generation additions and retirements, and additional transmission facilities required for system reliability. The cases must:


(i) Provide all files to model normal, single contingency, multiple contingency, and special protective systems, including the special protective systems' automatic switching or load shedding system; and


(ii) State the assumptions, criteria, and guidelines upon which the models are based and take into consideration transmission facility loading, planned and forecasted forced outage rate for generation and transmission, generation dispatch scenarios, system protection, and system stability.


(3) A concise analysis of how the proposed project will:


(i) Improve system reliability over the long and short term;


(ii) Impact long-term regional transmission expansion plans;


(iii) Impact congestion on the system where the proposed project will be located and, as relevant, the neighboring systems; and


(iv) Incorporate any advanced technology design features, if applicable.


(4) Single-line diagrams, including existing system facilities identified by name and circuit number, that show system transmission elements, in relation to the project and other principal interconnected system elements, as well as power flow and loss data that represent system operating conditions.


(i) *Exhibit I—Project Cost and Financing.* (1) A statement of estimated costs of any new construction or modification.


(2) The estimated capital cost and estimated annual operations and maintenance expense of each proposed mitigation measure.


(3) A statement and evaluation of the consequences of denial of the transmission line permit application.


(j) *Exhibit J—Construction, operation, and management.* A concise statement providing arrangements for supervision, management, engineering, accounting, legal, or other similar services to be rendered in connection with the construction, operation, and maintenance of the project, if not to be performed by employees of the applicant, including reference to any existing or contemplated agreements, together with a statement showing any affiliation between the applicant and any parties to the agreements or arrangements.



---

[N] [71 FR 69465, Dec. 1, 2006, as amended at 89 FR 46732, May 29, 2024]






