# § 210.11-02   Preparation requirements.

(a) *Form and content.* (1) Pro forma financial information must consist of a pro forma condensed balance sheet, pro forma condensed statements of comprehensive income, and accompanying explanatory notes. In certain circumstances (*i.e.,* where a limited number of pro forma adjustments are required and those adjustments are easily understood), a narrative description of the pro forma effects of the transaction may be disclosed in lieu of the statements described in this paragraph (a)(1).


(2) The pro forma financial information must be accompanied by an introductory paragraph which briefly sets forth a description of:


(i) Each transaction for which pro forma effect is being given;


(ii) The entities involved;


(iii) The periods for which the pro forma financial information is presented; and


(iv) An explanation of what the pro forma presentation shows.


(3) The pro forma condensed financial information need only include major captions (*i.e.,* the numbered captions) prescribed by the applicable sections of Regulation S-X. Where any major balance sheet caption is less than 10 percent of total assets, the caption may be combined with others. When any major statement of comprehensive income caption is less than 15 percent of average net income attributable to the registrant for the most recent three fiscal years, the caption may be combined with others. In calculating average net income attributable to the registrant, loss years should be excluded unless losses were incurred in each of the most recent three years, in which case the average loss must be used for purposes of this test. Notwithstanding these tests, *de minimis* amounts need not be shown separately.


(4) Pro forma statements will ordinarily be in columnar form showing condensed historical statements, pro forma adjustments, and the pro forma results.


(5) The pro forma condensed statement of comprehensive income must disclose income (loss) from continuing operations and income or loss from continuing operations attributable to the controlling interest.


(6) The pro forma condensed balance sheet and pro forma condensed statements of comprehensive income must include, and be limited to, the following pro forma adjustments, except as noted in paragraph (a)(7) of this section:


(i) *Transaction Accounting Adjustments.* (A) Adjustments that depict in the pro forma condensed balance sheet the accounting for the transaction required by U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (U.S. GAAP) or, as applicable, International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IFRS-IASB). Calculate pro forma adjustments using the measurement date and method prescribed by the applicable accounting standards. For a probable transaction, calculate pro forma adjustments using, and disclose, the most recent practicable date prior to the effective date (for registration statements), qualification date (for offering statements under 17 CFR 230.251 through 230.263 (Regulation A)), or the mail date (for proxy statements).


(B) Adjustments that depict in the pro forma condensed statements of comprehensive income the effects of the pro forma balance sheet adjustments in paragraph (a)(6)(i)(A) of this section assuming those adjustments were made as of the beginning of the fiscal year presented. Such adjustments must be made whether or not the pro forma balance sheet is presented pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section. If the condition in § 210.11-01(a) that is met does not have a balance sheet effect, then depict the accounting for the transaction required by U.S. GAAP or IFRS-IASB, as applicable.


(ii) *Autonomous Entity Adjustments.* Adjustments that depict the registrant as an autonomous entity if the condition in § 210.11-01(a)(7) is met. Autonomous Entity Adjustments must be presented in a separate column from Transaction Accounting Adjustments.


(7) Management's Adjustments depicting synergies and dis-synergies of the acquisitions and dispositions for which pro forma effect is being given may, in the registrant's discretion, be presented if in its management's opinion, such adjustments would enhance an understanding of the pro forma effects of the transaction and the following conditions are met:


(i) *Basis for Management's Adjustments.* (A) There is a reasonable basis for each such adjustment.


(B) The adjustments are limited to the effect of such synergies and dis-synergies on the historical financial statements that form the basis for the pro forma statement of comprehensive income as if the synergies and dis-synergies existed as of the beginning of the fiscal year presented. If such adjustments reduce expenses, the reduction must not exceed the amount of the related expense historically incurred during the pro forma period presented.


(C) The pro forma financial information reflects all Management's Adjustments that are, in the opinion of management, necessary to a fair statement of the pro forma financial information presented and a statement to that effect is disclosed. When synergies are presented, any related dis-synergies must also be presented.


(ii) *Form of presentation.* (A) If presented, Management's Adjustments must be presented in the explanatory notes to the pro forma financial information in the form of reconciliations of pro forma net income from continuing operations attributable to the controlling interest and the related pro forma earnings per share data specified in paragraph (a)(9) of this section to such amounts after giving effect to Management's Adjustments.


(B) Management's Adjustments included or incorporated by reference into a registration statement, proxy statement, Regulation A offering statement, or Form 8-K should be as of the most recent practicable date prior to the effective date, mail date, qualification date, or filing date as applicable, which may require that they be updated if previously provided in a Form 8-K that is appropriately incorporated by reference.


(C) If Management's Adjustments will change the number of shares or potential common shares, reflect the change within Management's Adjustments in accordance with U.S. GAAP or IFRS-IASB, as applicable, as if the common stock or potential common stock were outstanding as of the beginning of the period presented.


(D) The explanatory notes must also include disclosure of the basis for and material limitations of each Management's Adjustment, including any material assumptions or uncertainties of such adjustment, an explanation of the method of the calculation of the adjustment, if material, and the estimated time frame for achieving the synergies and dis-synergies of such adjustment.


*Instruction 1 to paragraph (a)(7):* Any forward-looking information supplied is expressly covered by the safe harbor rules under §§ 230.175 and 240.3b-6 of this chapter.


(8) All pro forma adjustments should be referenced to notes that clearly explain the assumptions involved.


(9)(i) Historical and pro forma basic and diluted per share amounts based on continuing operations attributable to the controlling interests and the number of shares used to calculate such per share amounts must be presented on the face of the pro forma condensed statement of comprehensive income and only give effect to Transaction Accounting Adjustments and Autonomous Entity Adjustments.


(ii) The number of shares used in the calculation of the pro forma per share amounts must be based on the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the period adjusted to give effect to the number of shares issued or to be issued to consummate the transaction, or if applicable whose proceeds will be used to consummate the transaction as if the shares were outstanding as of the beginning of the period presented. Calculate the pro forma effect of potential common stock being issued in the transaction (*e.g.,* a convertible security), or the proceeds of which will be used to consummate the transaction, on pro forma earnings per share in accordance with U.S. GAAP or IFRS-IASB, as applicable, as if the potential common stock were outstanding as of the beginning of the period presented.


(10) If the transaction is structured in such a manner that significantly different results may occur, provide additional pro forma presentations which give effect to the range of possible results.


(11) The accompanying explanatory notes must disclose:


(i) Revenues, expenses, gains and losses and related tax effects which will not recur in the income of the registrant beyond 12 months after the transaction.


(ii) For Transaction Accounting Adjustments:


(A) A table showing the total consideration transferred or received including its components and how they were measured. If total consideration includes contingent consideration, describe the arrangement(s), the basis for determining the amount of payment(s) or receipt(s), and an estimate of the range of outcomes (undiscounted) or, if a range cannot be estimated, that fact and the reasons why; and


(B) The following information when the accounting is incomplete: A prominent statement to this effect; the items for which the accounting depicted is incomplete; a description of the information that the registrant requires, including, if material, the uncertainties affecting the pro forma financial information and the possible consequences of their resolution; an indication of when the accounting is expected to be finalized; and other available information that will enable a reader to understand the magnitude of any potential adjustments to the measurements depicted.


(iii) For each Autonomous Entity Adjustment, a description of the adjustment (including the material uncertainties), the material assumptions, the calculation of the adjustment, and additional qualitative information about the Autonomous Entity Adjustments, if any, necessary to give a fair and balanced presentation of the pro forma financial information.


(12) A registrant must not:


(i) Present pro forma financial information on the face of the registrant's historical financial statements or in the accompanying notes, except where such presentation is required by U.S. GAAP or IFRS-IASB, as applicable.


(ii) Present pro forma financial information, or summaries of such information, elsewhere in a filing that excludes material transactions for which pro forma effect is required to be given.


(iii) Present the pro forma amounts in paragraph (a)(7) of this section elsewhere in a filing without also presenting with equal or greater prominence the amounts specified in paragraph (a)(7) of this section to which they are required to be reconciled and a cross-reference to that reconciliation.


(iv) Give pro forma effect to the registrant's adoption of an accounting standard in pro forma financial information required by §§ 210.11-01 through 210.11-03.


(b) *Implementation guidance*—(1) *Historical statement of comprehensive income.* The historical statement of comprehensive income used in the pro forma financial information must only be presented through income from continuing operations (or the appropriate modification thereof).


(2) *Business acquisitions.* In some transactions, such as in financial institution acquisitions, measuring the acquired assets at their acquisition date fair value may result in significant discounts relative to the acquired business's historical cost of the acquired assets. When such discounts can result in a significant effect on earnings (losses) in periods immediately subsequent to the acquisition that will be progressively eliminated over a relatively short period, the effect of the discounts on reported results of operations for each of the next five years must be disclosed in a note.


(3) *Business dispositions.* Transaction Accounting Adjustments giving effect to the disposition of a business must not decrease historically incurred compensation expense for employees who were not, or will not be, transferred or terminated as of the disposition date.


(4) *Multiple transactions.* (i) When consummation of more than one transaction has occurred, or is probable, the pro forma financial information must present in separate columns each transaction for which pro forma presentation is required by § 210.11-01.


(ii) If the pro forma financial information is presented in a proxy or information statement for purposes of obtaining shareholder approval of one of the transactions, the effects of that transaction must be clearly set forth.


(5) *Tax effects.* (i) Tax effects, if any, of pro forma adjustments normally should be calculated at the statutory rate in effect during the periods for which pro forma condensed statements of comprehensive income are presented and should be reflected as a separate pro forma adjustment.


(ii) When the registrant's historical statements of comprehensive income do not reflect the tax provision on the separate return basis, pro forma statements of comprehensive income adjustments must reflect a tax provision calculated on the separate return basis.


(c) *Periods to be presented.* (1) A pro forma condensed balance sheet as of the end of the most recent period for which a consolidated balance sheet of the registrant is required by § 210.3-01 must be filed unless the transaction is already reflected in such balance sheet.


(2)(i) Pro forma condensed statements of comprehensive income must be filed for only the most recent fiscal year, except as noted in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, and for the period from the most recent fiscal year end to the most recent interim date for which a balance sheet is required. A pro forma condensed statement of comprehensive income may be filed for the corresponding interim period of the preceding fiscal year. A pro forma condensed statement of comprehensive income must not be filed when the historical statement of comprehensive income reflects the transaction for the entire period.


(ii) For transactions required to be accounted for under U.S. GAAP or, as applicable, IFRS-IASB by retrospectively revising the historical statements of comprehensive income (*e.g.,* combination of entities under common control and discontinued operations), pro forma statements of comprehensive income must be filed for all periods for which historical financial statements of the registrant are required. Retrospective revisions stemming from the registrant's adoption of a new accounting principle must not be reflected in pro forma statements of comprehensive income until they are depicted in the registrant's historical financial statements.


(3) Pro forma condensed statements of comprehensive income must be presented using the registrant's fiscal year end. If the most recent fiscal year end of any other entity involved in the transaction differs from the registrant's most recent fiscal year end by more than one fiscal quarter, the other entity's statement of comprehensive income must be brought up to within one fiscal quarter of the registrant's most recent fiscal year end, if practicable. This updating could be accomplished by adding subsequent interim period results to the most recent fiscal year end information and deducting the comparable preceding year interim period results. Disclosure must be made of the periods combined and of the sales or revenues and income for any periods which were excluded from or included more than once in the condensed pro forma statement of comprehensive income (*e.g.,* an interim period that is included both as part of the fiscal year and the subsequent interim period).


*Instruction 1 to paragraph (c)(3):* In circumstances where different fiscal year ends exist, § 210.3-12 may require a registrant to include in the pro forma financial information an acquired or to be acquired foreign business historical period that would be more current than the periods included in the required historical financial statements of the foreign business.


(4) Whenever unusual events enter into the determination of the results shown for the most recently completed fiscal year, the effect of such unusual events should be disclosed and consideration should be given to presenting a pro forma condensed statement of comprehensive income for the most recent twelve-month period in addition to those required in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section if the most recent twelve-month period is more representative of normal operations.


---

[N] [85 FR 54066, Aug. 31, 2020]




