# ยง 614.4030   Federal land credit associations.

(a) *Long-term real estate lending.* Federal land credit associations are authorized, subject to the requirments of ยง 614.4200, to make real estate mortgage loans with maturities of not less than 5 years nor more than 40 years and continuing commitments to make such loans.


(b) *Loan participations.* Subject to the requirements of subpart H of this part, Federal land credit associations may enter into participation agreements with:


(1) Farm Credit banks and associations that are direct lenders and lenders that are not Farm Credit institutions on loans of the type it is authorized to make under title I of the Act; 


(2) Farm Credit banks and associations that are direct lenders on loans it is not authorized to make, provided the borrower eligibility, membership, term, amount, loan security, and stock or participation certificate requirements of the originating institution are met; and


(3) The Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation to the extent provided in ยง 614.4055.


(c) *Other interests in loans.* (1) Subject to the requirements of subpart H of this part and the supervision of their respective funding banks, Federal land credit associations may sell interests in loans made under paragraph (a) of this section only to:


(i) Farm Credit System institutions, as authorized by their respective funding banks;


(ii) Other lenders that are not Farm Credit System institutions, as authorized by their respective funding banks; and


(iii) Any certified agricultural mortgage marketing facility, as defined by section 8.0(3) of the Act, for the purpose of pooling and securitizing such loans under title VIII of the Act.


(2) Subject to the requirements of subpart H of this part, Federal land credit associations may purchase interests in loans that comply with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section and nonvoting stock from Farm Credit System institutions.


(3) Federal land credit associations, in their capacity as certified agricultural mortgage marketing facilities under title VIII of the Act, may purchase interests in loans (other than participation interests under paragraph (b) of this section) from institutions other than Farm Credit System institutions for the purpose of pooling and securitizing such loans under title VIII of the Act.



---

[N] [55 FR 24880, June 19, 1990, as amended at 57 FR 38247, Aug. 24, 1992; 62 FR 51013, Sept. 30, 1997; 64 FR 43049, Aug. 9, 1999; 65 FR 24102, Apr. 25, 2000; 67 FR 1285, Jan. 10, 2002]




