# ยง 63.6   Assignment of United States Government employees to consult, lecture, teach, engage in research, or demonstrate special skills.

An employee of the United States Government who has been assigned for service abroad to consult, lecture, teach, engage in research, or demonstrate special skills, may be entitled to any or all of the following benefits when authorized by the Agency.


(a) *Transportation.* Transportation and miscellaneous expenses in the United States and abroad, including baggage charges, and per diem in lieu of subsistence at the maximum rates allowable while in a travel status in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Travel Regulations. The participant shall be considered as remaining in a travel status during the entire period covered by his or her assignment unless otherwise designated.


(b) *Advance of funds.* Advances of per diem as provided by law.


(c) *Compensation.* Compensation in accordance with Civil Service rules; or in accordance with the grade in which the position occupied may be administratively classified; or Foreign Service Act, as amended.


(d) *Allowances for cost of living and living quarters.* Allowances for living quarters, heat, fuel, light, and to compensate for the increased cost of living in accordance with the Federal Travel Regulations (Government Civilians, Foreign Areas), when not in a travel status as provided in paragraph (a) of this section.


(e) *Books and educational materials allowance.* A reasonable allowance for books and educational materials. Such books and materials, unless otherwise specified, shall be selected by the employee and purchased and shipped by the Agency or its agent. At the conclusion of the assignment, the books and educational materials shall be transferred to and become the property of an appropriate local institution or be otherwise disposed of as directed by the Agency.


(f) *Families and effects.* Cost of transportation of immediate family and household goods and effects when going to and returning from posts of assignment in foreign countries in accordance with the provisions of the Foreign Service Regulations of the United States of America.




