# § 2204.201   Definitions.

For the purposes of this part:


*Adversary adjudication* means an adjudication under 5 U.S.C. 554 and 29 U.S.C. 659(c) in which the position of the Secretary is represented by counsel or otherwise, subject to certain exclusions set forth in 5 U.S.C. 504(b)(1)(C).


*Agent* means any person other than an attorney who represents a party in a proceeding before the Commission pursuant to § 2200.22 of this chapter.


*Commission* means the Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission.


*Demand* means the express demand of the Secretary which led to the adversary adjudication, but does not include a recitation by the Secretary of the maximum statutory penalty:


(1) In the administrative complaint; or


(2) Elsewhere when accompanied by an express demand for a lesser amount.


*Excessive demand* means a demand by the Secretary, in an adversary adjudication arising from the Secretary's action to enforce a party's compliance with a statutory requirement that is substantially in excess of the decision of the judge or Commission and is unreasonable when compared with such decision, under the facts and circumstances of the case.


*Final disposition* means the date on which a decision or order disposing of the merits of the adversary adjudication or any other complete resolution of the adversary adjudication, such as a settlement or voluntary dismissal, become final and unappealable, both within the agency and to the courts.


*Judge* means the Administrative Law Judge appointed under 29 U.S.C. 661(j) who presided over the adversary adjudication or presides over an EAJA proceeding.


*Party* means a party, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 551(3), who is:


(1) An individual whose net worth did not exceed $2,000,000 at the time the adversary adjudication was initiated; or


(2) Any owner of an unincorporated business, or any partnership, corporation, association, unit of local government, or organization, the net worth of which did not exceed $7,000,000 at the time the adversary adjudication was initiated, and which had not more than 500 employees at the time the adversary adjudication was initiated; except that an organization described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of such Code, or a cooperative association as defined in section 15(a) of the Agricultural Marketing Act, may be a party regardless of the net worth of such organization or cooperative association. For purposes of 5 U.S.C. 504(a)(4), “party” also includes a small entity as defined in 5 U.S.C. 601.


*Position of the Secretary* means, in addition to the position taken by the Secretary in the adversary adjudication, the action or failure to act by the Secretary upon which the adversary adjudication is based, except that fees and other expenses may not be awarded to a party for any portion of the adversary adjudication in which the party has unreasonably protracted the proceedings.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Labor.




