# ยง 579.2   Definitions.

As used in this part and part 580 of this chapter:


*Act* means the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended (52 Stat. 1060, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 201, *et seq.).*

*Administrative law judge* means a person appointed as provided in 5 U.S.C. 3105 and subpart B of part 930 of title 5 of the CFR, and qualified to preside at hearings under 5 U.S.C. 554-557.


*Administrator* means the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division, U.S. Department of Labor, and includes an authorized representative designated by the Administrator to perform any of the functions of the Administrator under this part and part 580 of this chapter.


*Agency* has the meaning given it by 5 U.S.C. 551.


*Chief Administrative Law Judge* means the Chief Administrative Law Judge, Office of Administrative Law Judges, U.S. Department of Labor, 800 K Street, NW., Suite 400, Washington, DC 20001-8002.


*Department* means the U.S. Department of Labor.


*Person* includes any individual, partnership, corporation, association, business trust, legal representative, or organized group of persons.


*Repeated violations* has two components. An employer's violation of section 12 or section 13(c) of the Act relating to child labor or any regulation issued pursuant to such sections shall be deemed to be *repeated* for purposes of this section:


(1) Where the employer has previously violated section 12 or section 13(c) of the Act relating to child labor or any regulation issued pursuant to such sections, provided the employer has previously received notice, through a responsible official of the Wage and Hour Division or otherwise authoritatively, that the employer allegedly was in violation of the provisions of the Act; or,


(2) Where a court or other tribunal has made a finding that an employer has previously violated section 12 or section 13(c) of the Act relating to child labor or any regulation issued pursuant to such sections, unless an appeal therefrom which has been timely filed is pending before a court or other tribunal with jurisdiction to hear the appeal, or unless the finding has been set aside or reversed by such appellate tribunal.


*Secretary* means the Secretary of Labor, U.S. Department of Labor, or an authorized representative of the Secretary.


*Serious injury* means:


(1) Permanent loss or substantial impairment of one of the senses (sight, hearing, taste, smell, tactile sensation);


(2) Permanent loss or substantial impairment of the function of a bodily member, organ, or mental faculty, including the loss of all or part of an arm, leg, foot, hand or other body part; or,


(3) Permanent paralysis or substantial impairment that causes loss of movement or mobility of an arm, leg, foot, hand or other body part.


*Solicitor of Labor* means the Solicitor, U.S. Department of Labor, and includes attorneys designated by the Solicitor to perform functions of the Solicitor under this part and part 780 of this chapter.


*Willful violations* under this section has several components. An employer's violation of section 12 or section 13(c) of the Act relating to child labor or any regulation issued pursuant to such sections, shall be deemed to be willful for purposes of this section where the employer knew that its conduct was prohibited by the Act or showed reckless disregard for the requirements of the Act. All of the facts and circumstances surrounding the violation shall be taken into account in determining whether a violation was willful. In addition, for purposes of this section, the employer's receipt of advice from a responsible official of the Wage and Hour Division to the effect that the conduct in question is not lawful, among other situations, can be sufficient to show that the employer's conduct is knowing, but is not automatically dispositive. For purposes of this section, reckless disregard of the requirements of the Act means, among other situations, that the employer should have inquired further into whether its conduct was in compliance with the Act and failed to make adequate further inquiry.





---

[N] [75 FR 28461, May 20, 2010, as amended at 86 FR 52987, Sept. 24, 2021]




