# § 731.103   Delegation to agencies for the competitive service and career Senior Executive Service.

(a) Subject to the limitations and requirements of paragraphs (b), (d), and (f) of this section, OPM delegates to the head of an agency authority for making a suitability determination and taking a suitability action (including limited, agency-specific debarments under § 731.205) in a case involving an *applicant* or *appointee.*

(b) When an agency, acting under delegated authority from OPM, determines that a government-wide debarment by OPM under § 731.204(a) may be an appropriate action, it must refer the case to OPM for debarment consideration. An agency must make a referral prior to any proposed suitability action, but only after sufficient resolution of the suitability issue(s) to determine if a Government-wide debarment appears warranted.


(c) An agency exercising authority under this part by delegation from OPM must adhere to OPM requirements as stated in this part and issuances described in § 731.102(b). An Agency must also implement policies and maintain records demonstrating that they employ reasonable methods to ensure adherence to these issuances.


(d) OPM reserves the right to undertake a determination of suitability based upon evidence of falsification or fraud relating to an examination or appointment at any point when information giving rise to such a charge is discovered. OPM must be informed in all cases where there is evidence of material, intentional false statements, or deception or fraud, in examination or appointment, and OPM will take a suitability action where warranted.


(e) OPM may revoke an agency's delegation to make suitability determinations and take suitability actions under this part if an agency fails to conform to this part or OPM issuances as described in § 731.102(b).


(f) OPM retains sole jurisdiction to make a final suitability determination and take an action under this part in any case where there is evidence that there has been a material, intentional false statement, or deception or fraud, in examination or appointment. OPM also retains sole jurisdiction to make a final suitability determination and take an action under this part in any case when there is evidence that there has been knowing and willful engagement in acts or activities designed to overthrow the U.S. Government by force. An Agency must refer these cases to OPM for suitability determinations and suitability actions under this authority. Although no prior approval is needed, notification to OPM is required if the agency wants to take, or has taken, action under its own authority (such as 5 CFR part 315, 359, or 752) in cases involving conduct fitting within any of these factors. In addition, paragraph (a) of this section notwithstanding, OPM may, in its discretion, exercise its jurisdiction under this part in any case it deems necessary regardless of whether the agency may adjudicate under another authority.






