# § 1201.41   What are NARA's procedures for collecting debts by tax refund offset?

(a) NARA's Financial Services Division will be the point of contact with the Treasury for administrative matters regarding the offset program. 


(b) NARA will ensure that the procedures prescribed by the Treasury are followed in developing information about past-due debts and submitting the debts to the Treasury. 


(c) NARA will submit to the Treasury a notification of a taxpayer's liability for past-due legally enforceable debt. This notification will contain the following: 


(1) The name and taxpayer identification number of the debtor; 


(2) The amount of the past-due and legally enforceable debt; 


(3) The date on which the original debt became past due; 


(4) A statement certifying that, with respect to each debt reported, all of the requirements of § 1201.40(b) have been satisfied; and 


(5) Any other information as prescribed by Treasury. 


(d) For purposes of this section, notice that collection of the debt is stayed by a bankruptcy proceeding involving the debtor will bar referral of the debt to the Treasury. 


(e) NARA will promptly notify the Treasury to correct data when NARA: 


(1) Determines that an error has been made with respect to a debt that has been referred; 


(2) Receives or credits a payment on the debt; or 


(3) Receives notice that the person owing the debt has filed for bankruptcy under Title 11 of the United States Code and the automatic stay is in effect or has been adjudicated bankrupt and the debt has been discharged. 


(f) When advising debtors of NARA's intent to refer a debt to the Treasury for offset, NARA will also advise debtors of remedial actions (*see* §§ 1201.9 and 1201.14 through 1201.16 of this part) available to defer the offset or prevent it from taking place. 




