# § 1203.412   Classification guides.

(a) *General.* A classification guide, based upon classification determinations made by appropriate program and classification authorities, shall be issued for each classified system, program or project. Classification guides shall:


(1) Identify the information elements to be protected, using categorization and subcategorization to the extent necessary to ensure that the information involved can be readily and uniformly identified.


(2) State which of the classification designations (i.e., Top Secret, Secret or Confidential) apply to the identified information elements.


(3) State the duration of each specified classification in terms of a period of time or future event. If the original classification authority cannot determine an earlier specific date or event for declassification, information shall be marked for declassification 10 years from the date of the original decision, unless the original classification authority otherwise determines that the sensitivity of the information requires it be marked for declassification for up to 25 years from the date of the original decision.


(4) Indicate specifically that the designations, time limits, markings and other requirements of “the Order” are to be applied to information classified pursuant to the guide.


(5) All security classification guides should be forwarded to the Office of Protective Services for review and final approval. The Office of Protective Services will maintain a list of all classification guides in current use.


(b) *Review of classification guides.* Classification guides shall be reviewed by the originator for currency and accuracy not less than once every five years. Changes shall be in strict conformance with the provisions of this part 1203 and shall be issued promptly. If no changes are made, the originator shall so annotate the record copy and show the date of the review.



---

[N] [44 FR 34913, June 18, 1979, as amended at 48 FR 5891, Feb. 9, 1983; 78 FR 5119, Jan. 24, 2013]




