# § 29.807   Passenger emergency exits.

(a) *Type.* For the purpose of this part, the types of passenger emergency exit are as follows: 


(1) *Type I.* This type must have a rectangular opening of not less than 24 inches wide by 48 inches high, with corner radii not greater than one-third the width of the exit, in the passenger area in the side of the fuselage at floor level and as far away as practicable from areas that might become potential fire hazards in a crash. 


(2) *Type II.* This type is the same as Type I, except that the opening must be at least 20 inches wide by 44 inches high. 


(3) *Type III.* This type is the same as Type I, except that—


(i) The opening must be at least 20 inches wide by 36 inches high; and 


(ii) The exits need not be at floor level. 


(4) *Type IV.* This type must have a rectangular opening of not less than 19 inches wide by 26 inches high, with corner radii not greater than one-third the width of the exit, in the side of the fuselage with a step-up inside the rotorcraft of not more than 29 inches. 


(b) *Passenger emergency exits; side-of-fuselage.* Emergency exits must be accessible to the passengers and, except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, must be provided in accordance with the following table:


(c) *Passenger emergency exits; other than side-of-fuselage.* In addition to the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section—


(1) There must be enough openings in the top, bottom, or ends of the fuselage to allow evacuation with the rotorcraft on its side; or 


(2) The probability of the rotorcraft coming to rest on its side in a crash landing must be extremely remote. 


(d) *Ditching emergency exits for passengers.* If certification with ditching provisions is requested, ditching emergency exits must be provided in accordance with the following requirements and must be proven by test, demonstration, or analysis unless the emergency exits required by paragraph (b) of this section already meet these requirements.


(1) For rotorcraft that have a passenger seating configuration, excluding pilots seats, of nine seats or less, one exit above the waterline in each side of the rotorcraft, meeting at least the dimensions of a Type IV exit. 


(2) For rotorcraft that have a passenger seating configuration, excluding pilots seats, of 10 seats or more, one exit above the waterline in a side of the rotorcraft meeting at least the dimensions of a Type III exit, for each unit (or part of a unit) of 35 passenger seats, but no less than two such exits in the passenger cabin, with one on each side of the rotorcraft. However, where it has been shown through analysis, ditching demonstrations, or any other tests found necessary by the Administrator, that the evacuation capability of the rotorcraft during ditching is improved by the use of larger exits, or by other means, the passenger seat to exit ratio may be increased. 


(3) Flotation devices, whether stowed or deployed, may not interfere with or obstruct the exits.


(e) *Ramp exits.* One Type I exit only, or one Type II exit only, that is required in the side of the fuselage under paragraph (b) of this section, may be installed instead in the ramp of floor ramp rotorcraft if—


(1) Its installation in the side of the fuselage is impractical; and 


(2) Its installation in the ramp meets § 29.813. 


(f) *Tests.* The proper functioning of each emergency exit must be shown by test. 



---

[N] [Amdt. 29-3, 33 FR 968, Jan. 26, 1968, as amended by Amdt. 29-12, 41 FR 55472, Dec. 20, 1976; Amdt. 27-26, 55 FR 8004, Mar. 6, 1990] 




