# ยง 263.57   Sanctions relating to conduct in an adjudicatory proceeding.

(a) *General rule.* The ALJ may impose sanctions when any party or person in an adjudicatory proceeding under this part has failed to comply with an applicable statute, regulation, or order, and that failure to comply:


(1) Constitutes contemptuous conduct;


(2) Materially injures or prejudices another party in terms of substantive injury, incurring additional expenses including attorney's fees, prejudicial delay, or otherwise;


(3) Is a clear and unexcused violation of an applicable statute, regulation, or order; or


(4) Unduly delays the proceeding.


(b) *Sanctions.* Sanctions which may be imposed include any one or more of the following:


(1) Issuing an order against the party;


(2) Rejecting or striking any testimony or documentary evidence offered, or other papers filed, by the party;


(3) Precluding the party from:


(i) Contesting specific issues or findings;


(ii) Offering certain evidence or challenging or contesting certain evidence offered by another party; or


(iii) Making a late filing or conditioning a late filing on any terms that are just;


(4) Assessing reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees, incurred by any other party as a result of the improper action or failure to act; and


(5) Excluding or suspending a party or person from the adjudicatory proceeding.


(c) *Procedure for imposition of sanctions.* (1) Upon the motion of any party, or on the ALJ's own motion, the ALJ may impose sanctions in accordance with this section. The ALJ must submit to the Board for final ruling the sanction of entering a final order determining the case on the merits.


(2) No sanction authorized by this section, other than refusal to accept late filings, must be imposed without prior notice to all parties and an opportunity for any party or person against whom sanctions would be imposed to be heard. Such opportunity to be heard may be on such notice, and the response may be in such form, as the ALJ directs. The ALJ may limit the opportunity to be heard to an opportunity of a party or person to respond orally immediately after the act or inaction covered by this section is noted by the ALJ.


(3) Requests for the imposition of sanctions by any party, and the imposition of sanctions, are subject to interlocutory review in the same manner as any other ruling by the ALJ.


(d) *Section not exclusive.* Nothing in this section precludes the ALJ or the Board from taking any other action, or imposing any restriction or sanction, authorized by applicable statute or regulation.






