# § 1.876-1   Alien residents of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, or the Northern Mariana Islands.

(a) *Scope.* Section 876 and this section apply to any nonresident alien individual who is a bona fide resident of Puerto Rico or of a section 931 possession during the entire taxable year.


(b) *In general.* An individual to whom this section applies is, in accordance with the provisions of section 876, subject to tax under sections 1 and 55 in generally the same manner as an alien resident of the United States. See §§ 1.1-1(b) and 1.871-1. The tax generally is imposed upon the taxable income of such individual, determined in accordance with section 63(a) and the regulations under that section, from sources both within and without the United States, except for amounts excluded from gross income under the provisions of section 931 or 933. For determining the form of return to be used by such an individual, see section 6012 and the regulations under that section.


(c) *Exceptions.* Though subject to the tax imposed by section 1, an individual to whom this section applies will nevertheless be treated as a nonresident alien individual for the purpose of many provisions of the Internal Revenue Code (Code) relating to nonresident alien individuals. Thus, for example, such an individual is not allowed the standard deduction (section 63(c)(6)); is subject to withholding of tax at source under chapter 3 of the Code (for example, section 1441(e)); is generally excepted from the collection of income tax at source on wages for services performed in the possession (section 3401(a)(6)); is not allowed to make a joint return (section 6013(a)(1)); and, if described in section 6072(c), must pay his first installment of estimated income tax on or before the 15th day of the 6th month of the taxable year (section 6654(j) and (k)) and must pay his income tax on or before the 15th day of the 6th month following the close of the taxable year (sections 6072(c) and 6151(a)). In addition, under section 152(b)(3), an individual is not allowed a deduction for a dependent who is a resident of the relevant possession unless the dependent is a citizen or national of the United States.


(d) *Credits against tax.* (1) Certain credits under the Internal Revenue Code are available to any taxpayer subject to the tax imposed by section 1, including individuals to whom this section applies. For example, except as otherwise provided under section 931 or 933, the credits provided by the following sections are allowable to the extent provided under such sections against the tax determined in accordance with this section—


(i) Section 23 (relating to the credit for adoption expenses);


(ii) Section 31 (relating to the credit for tax withheld on wages);


(iii) Section 33 (relating to the credit for tax withheld at source on nonresident aliens); and


(iv) Section 34 (relating to the credit for certain uses of gasoline and special fuels).


(2) Certain credits under the Internal Revenue Code are not available to nonresident aliens or are subject to limitations based on such factors as principal place of abode in the United States. For example, the credits provided by the following sections are not allowable against the tax determined in accordance with this section except to the extent otherwise provided under such sections—


(i) Section 22 (relating to the credit for the elderly and disabled);


(ii) Section 25A (relating to the Hope Scholarship and Lifetime Learning Credits); and


(iii) Section 32 (relating to the earned income credit).


(e) *Definitions.* For purposes of this section—


(1) “Bona fide resident” is defined in § 1.937-1; and


(2) “Section 931 possession” is defined in § 1.931-1(c)(1).


(f) *Effective/applicability date.* This section applies to taxable years ending after April 9, 2008.



---

[N] [T.D. 9391, 73 FR 19358, Apr. 9, 2008]




