# § 1065.1133   Application selection, data gathering, and analysis.

This section describes the gathering and analysis of the field generated data that is required for generation of the data cycle. Gather data for the determination of aftertreatment exposure to thermal, lubricating oil, and sulfur related aging factors. You are not required to submit this data as part of your application, but you must make this data available if we request it.


(a) *Field data target selection.* Use good engineering judgment to select one or more target applications for gathering of input field data for the accelerated aging cycle generation that represent a greater than average exposure to potential field aging factors. It should be noted that the same application may not necessarily represent the worst case for all aging factors. If sufficient data is not available to make this determination with multiple applications, you may select the application that is expected to have the highest sales volume for a given engine family.


(1) *Thermal exposure.* We recommend that you select applications for a given engine family that represent the 90th percentile of exposure to thermal aging. For example, if a given engine family incorporates a periodic infrequent regeneration event that involves exposure to higher temperatures than are observed during normal (non-regeneration) operation, we recommend that you select an application wherein the total duration of the cumulative regeneration events is at the 90th percentile of expected applications for that family. For an engine that does not incorporate a distinct regeneration event, we recommend selecting an application that represents the 90th percentile in terms of the overall average temperature.


(2) *Oil exposure.* Use a combination of field and laboratory measurements to determine an average rate of oil consumption in grams per hour that reaches the exhaust. You may use the average total oil consumption rate of the engine if you are unable to determine what portion of the oil consumed reaches the exhaust aftertreatment.


(3) *Sulfur exposure.* The total sulfur exposure is the sum of fuel- and oil-related sulfur. Oil-related sulfur will be accounted for in the acceleration of oil exposure directly. We recommend that you determine fuel-related sulfur exposure by selecting an application that represents the 90th percentile of fuel consumption. Use good engineering judgment to determine that average rate of fuel consumption for the target application. You may use a combination of field and laboratory measurements to make this determination. Calculate the average rate of fuel-related sulfur exposure in grams per hour from the average rate of fuel consumption assuming a fuel sulfur level of 10 ppm by weight.


(b) *Application data gathering.* Use good engineering judgment to gather data from one or more field vehicles to support the accelerated aging cycle generation. We recommend that you gather data at a recording frequency of 1 Hz. The type of data that you gather will depend on the method you plan to use for cycle generation. Record both the data and the number of engine operating hours which that data represents regardless of method, as this information will be used to scale the cycle calculations. Use good engineering judgment to ensure that the amount of data recorded provides an accurate representation of field operation for the target application. If your application includes a periodic regeneration event, you must record multiple events to ensure that you have accurately captured the variation of those events. We recommend that you record at least 300 hours of field operation, and at least 3 different regeneration events if applicable.


(1) When using Method 1, direct field data use, as described in § 1065.1139(b)(1), record data for exhaust flow rate and at least one representative inlet temperature for each major aftertreatment system catalyst component, such as a diesel oxidation catalyst (DOC), diesel particulate filter (DPF), or selective catalytic reduction (SCR) catalyst. If a given catalyst component has multiple substrates installed directly in sequence, it is sufficient to record only the inlet temperature for the first catalyst substrate in the sequence. It is not necessary to record separate temperatures for substrates that are “zone-coated” with multiple catalyst functions. Record a representative outlet temperature for any major catalyst component that is used to elevate the temperature of downstream components. This could be the inlet of the next major component if that would be representative. We recommend that you record engine fuel rate to assist in the determination of sulfur exposure rates, but you may use other data for this purpose.


(2) When using Method 2, weighting of certification cycles, as described § 1065.1139(b)(2), record data for engine speed and engine load. Record sufficient ECM load parameters to determine a torque value that can be compared directly to engine torque as measured in the laboratory. You may optionally use ECM fuel rate measurements to determine load, but only if the same measurements can also be performed during laboratory testing on certification test cycles using sensors with comparable response characteristics. For example, you could use ECM fuel consumption rates for both field data and during laboratory tests.


(i) Optionally, as an alternative to the parameters required in this paragraph (b)(2), you may use a system exhaust temperature measurement to represent load. This requires one recorded temperature that represents the aftertreatment system. We recommend that you use a temperature recorded at the outlet of the first major catalyst component. If you choose to use this option, you must use the same temperature sensor for both field and laboratory measurements. Do not compare measurements between on-engine production temperature sensors with laboratory temperature sensors.


(ii) Optionally, as an alternative to the parameters required in this paragraph (b)(2), you may use exhaust flow and temperature measurements recorded in the field to support Method 2 calculations. Only one recorded temperature that represents the aftertreatment system is needed in this case. We recommend that you use a temperature recorded at the outlet of the first major catalyst component. Do not compare measurements between on-engine production temperature sensors with laboratory temperature sensors.


(3) If you have an aftertreatment system which involves periodic regeneration events where the temperature is raised above levels observed during normal operation, you must record data to characterize each such event. Data must be recorded at a frequency of at least 1 Hz, and you must record the exhaust flow rate and inlet temperature of each key catalyst component that will experience elevated temperatures during the regeneration. In addition, record a flag or variable that can be used to determine the beginning and end of a regeneration event. You must record at least three such events to allow determination of the average regeneration profile. If you have multiple types of regeneration events which influence different catalyst components in the system, you must record this data for each type of event separately. Use good engineering judgment to determine the average duration of each type of regeneration event, and the average interval of time between successive regeneration events of that type. You may use the data recorded for this cycle determination, or any other representative data to determine average regeneration duration or regeneration interval. These values may be determined from the analysis used to determine emission adjustments to account for infrequent regeneration of aftertreatment devices in § 1065.680.






