# § 54.403   Lifeline support amount.

(a) The federal Lifeline support amount for all eligible telecommunications carriers shall equal:


(1) *Basic support amount.* Federal Lifeline support in the amount of $9.25 per month will be made available to an eligible telecommunications carrier providing Lifeline service to a qualifying low-income consumer, except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, if that carrier certifies to the Administrator that it will pass through the full amount of support to the qualifying low-income consumer and that it has received any non-federal regulatory approvals necessary to implement the rate reduction.


(2) For a Lifeline provider offering either standalone voice service, subject to the minimum service standards set forth in § 54.408, or voice service with broadband below the minimum standards set forth in § 54.408, the support levels will be as follows:


(i) Until December 1, 2019, the support amount will be $9.25 per month.


(ii) From December 1, 2019 until November 30, 2020, the support amount will be $7.25 per month.


(iii) From December 1, 2020 until November 30, 2021, the support amount will be $5.25 per month.


(iv) On December 1, 2021, standalone voice service, or voice service not bundled with broadband which meets the minimum standards set forth in § 54.408, will not be eligible for Lifeline support unless the Commission has previously determined otherwise.


(v) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(2)(iv) of this section, on December 1, 2021, the support amount for standalone voice service, or voice service not bundled with broadband which meets the minimum standards set forth in § 54.408, provided by a provider that is the only Lifeline provider in a Census block will be the support amount specified in paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section.




(3) *Tribal lands support amount.* Additional Federal Lifeline support of up to $25 per month will be made available to an eligible telecommunications carrier providing Lifeline service to an eligible resident of Tribal lands, as defined in § 54.400(e), to the extent that the eligible telecommunications carrier certifies to the Administrator that it will pass through the full Tribal lands support amount to the qualifying eligible resident of Tribal lands and that it has received any non-Federal regulatory approvals necessary to implement the required rate reduction.




(4) *Emergency communications support amount.* Emergency communications support in the amount of up to $9.25 per month will be made available to eligible telecommunications carriers providing service to qualifying survivors. An eligible telecommunications carrier must certify to the Administrator that it will pass through the full amount of support to the qualifying survivor and that it has received any non-Federal regulatory approvals necessary to implement the rate reduction.


(i) The base reimbursement in this paragraph (a)(4) can be applied to survivors receiving service that meets either the minimum service standard for voice service or broadband internet access service, as determined in accordance with § 54.408.


(ii) Additional Federal Lifeline support of up to $25 per month will be made available to an eligible telecommunications carrier providing emergency communications support to an eligible survivor resident of Tribal lands, as defined in § 54.400(e), to the extent that the eligible telecommunications carrier certifies to the Administrator that it will pass through the full Tribal lands support amount to the qualifying eligible resident of Tribal lands and that it has received any non-Federal regulatory approvals necessary to implement the required rate reduction.






(b) *Application of Lifeline discount amount.* (1) Eligible telecommunications carriers that charge Federal End User Common Line charges or equivalent Federal charges must apply Federal Lifeline support to waive the Federal End User Common Line charges for Lifeline subscribers if the carrier is seeking Lifeline reimbursement for eligible voice telephony service provided to those subscribers. Such carriers must apply any additional Federal support amount to a qualifying low-income consumer's intrastate rate, if the carrier has received the non-Federal regulatory approvals necessary to implement the required rate reduction. Other eligible telecommunications carriers must apply the Federal Lifeline support amount, plus any additional support amount, to reduce the cost of any generally available residential service plan or package offered by such carriers that provides at least one service commensurate with the requirements outlined in § 54.408, and charge Lifeline subscribers the resulting amount. 




(2) [Reserved]



---

[N] [77 FR 12967, Mar. 2, 2012, as amended at 81 FR 33090, May 24, 2016; 83 FR 2084, Jan. 16, 2018; 86 FR 1021, Jan. 7, 2021; 88 FR 34782, May 31, 2023; 88 FR 84446, Dec. 5, 2023; 89 FR 70120, Aug. 29, 2024]




