# § 63.455   Reporting requirements.

(a) Each owner or operator of a source subject to this subpart shall comply with the reporting requirements of subpart A of this part as specified in Table 1 to subpart S of part 63 and all the following requirements in this section. The initial notification report specified under § 63.9(b)(2) of subpart A of this part shall be submitted by April 15, 1999, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later.


(b) Each owner or operator of a kraft pulping system specified in § 63.440(d)(1) or a bleaching system specified in § 63.440(d)(3)(ii) shall submit, with the initial notification report specified under § 63.9(b)(2) of subpart A of this part and paragraph (a) of this section and update every two years thereafter, a non-binding control strategy report containing, at a minimum, the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(3) of this section in addition to the information required in § 63.9(b)(2) of subpart A of this part.


(1) A description of the emission controls or process modifications selected for compliance with the control requirements in this standard.


(2) A compliance schedule, including the dates by which each step toward compliance will be reached for each emission point or sets of emission points. At a minimum, the list of dates shall include:


(i) The date by which the major study(s) for determining the compliance strategy will be completed;


(ii) The date by which contracts for emission controls or process modifications will be awarded, or the date by which orders will be issued for the purchase of major components to accomplish emission controls or process changes;


(iii) The date by which on-site construction, installation of emission control equipment, or a process change is to be initiated;


(iv) The date by which on-site construction, installation of emissions control equipment, or a process change is to be completed;


(v) The date by which final compliance is to be achieved;


(vi) For compliance with paragraph § 63.440(d)(3)(ii), the tentative dates by which compliance with effluent limitation guidelines and standards intermediate pollutant load effluent reductions and as available, all the dates for the best available technology's milestones reported in the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System authorized under section 402 of the Clean Water Act and for the best professional milestones in the Voluntary Advanced Technology Incentives Program under 40 CFR 430.24 (b)(2); and


(vii) The date by which the final compliance tests will be performed.


(3) Until compliance is achieved, revisions or updates shall be made to the control strategy report required by paragraph (b) of this section indicating the progress made towards completing the installation of the emission controls or process modifications during the 2-year period.


(c) The owner or operator of each bleaching system complying with § 63.440(d)(3)(ii)(B) shall certify in the report specified under § 63.10(e)(3) of subpart A of this part that the daily application rates of chlorine and hypochlorite for that bleaching system have not increased as specified in § 63.440(d)(3)(ii)(B) until the requirements of § 63.440(d)(3)(ii)(A) are met.


(d) The owner or operator shall meet the requirements specified in paragraph (a) of this section upon startup of any new affected process equipment or pulping process condensate stream that becomes subject to the standards of this subpart due to a process change or modification.


(e) If the owner or operator uses the results of the performance test required in § 63.453(p)(2) to revise the approved values or ranges of the monitoring parameters specified in § 63.453(j)(1) or (2), the owner or operator shall submit an initial notification of the subsequent performance test to the Administrator as soon as practicable, but no later than 15 days, before the performance test required in § 63.453(p)(2) is scheduled to be conducted. The owner or operator shall notify the Administrator as soon as practicable, but no later than 24 hours, before the performance test is scheduled to be conducted to confirm the exact date and time of the performance test. 


(f) To comply with the open biological treatment system monitoring provisions of § 63.453(p)(3), the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator as soon as practicable of the onset of the dangerous, hazardous, or otherwise unsafe conditions that did not allow a compliance determination to be conducted using the sampling and test procedures in § 63.457(l). The notification shall occur no later than 24 hours after the onset of the dangerous, hazardous, or otherwise unsafe conditions and shall include the specific reason(s) that the sampling and test procedures in § 63.457(l) could not be performed.


(g) *Malfunction reporting requirements.* If a malfunction occurred during the reporting period, the report must include the number, duration and a brief description for each type of malfunction which occurred during the reporting period and which caused or may have caused any applicable emission limitation to be exceeded. The report must also include a description of actions taken by an owner or operator during a malfunction of an affected source to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.453(q), including actions taken to correct a malfunction.


(h) The owner or operator must submit performance test reports as specified in paragraphs (h)(1) through (4) of this section.


(1) The owner or operator of an affected source shall report the results of the performance test before the close of business on the 60th day following the completion of the performance test, unless approved otherwise in writing by the Administrator. A performance test is “completed” when field sample collection is terminated. Unless otherwise approved by the Administrator in writing, results of a performance test shall include the analysis of samples, determination of emissions and raw data. A complete test report must include the purpose of the test; a brief process description; a complete unit description, including a description of feed streams and control devices; sampling site description; pollutants measured; description of sampling and analysis procedures and any modifications to standard procedures; quality assurance procedures; record of operating conditions, including operating parameters for which limits are being set, during the test; record of preparation of standards; record of calibrations; raw data sheets for field sampling; raw data sheets for field and laboratory analyses; chain-of-custody documentation; explanation of laboratory data qualifiers; example calculations of all applicable stack gas parameters, emission rates, percent reduction rates, and analytical results, as applicable; and any other information required by the test method and the Administrator.


(2) Within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test (defined in § 63.2) as required by this subpart, the owner or operator must submit the results of the performance tests, including any associated fuel analyses, required by this subpart to the EPA's WebFIRE database by using the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI) that is accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (*http://www.epa.gov/cdx*). Performance test data must be submitted in the file format generated through use of the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) (see *http://www.epa.gov/ttn/chief/ert/index.html*). Only data collected using test methods on the ERT Web site are subject to this requirement for submitting reports electronically to WebFIRE. Owners or operators who claim that some of the information being submitted for performance tests is confidential business information (CBI) must submit a complete ERT file including information claimed to be CBI on a compact disk, flash drive or other commonly used electronic storage media to the EPA. The electronic media must be clearly marked as CBI and mailed to U.S. EPA/OAPQS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: WebFIRE Administrator, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same ERT file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via CDX as described earlier in this paragraph. At the discretion of the delegated authority, the owner or operator must also submit these reports, including the CBI, to the delegated authority in the format specified by the delegated authority. For any performance test conducted using test methods that are not listed on the ERT Web site, the owner or operator must submit the results of the performance test to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13.


(3) Within 60 days after the date of completing each CEMS performance evaluation test as defined in § 63.2, the owner or operator must submit relative accuracy test audit (RATA) data to the EPA's CDX by using CEDRI in accordance with paragraph (2) of this section. Only RATA pollutants that can be documented with the ERT (as listed on the ERT Web site) are subject to this requirement. For any performance evaluations with no corresponding RATA pollutants listed on the ERT Web site, the owner or operator must submit the results of the performance evaluation to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13.


(4) All reports required by this subpart not subject to the requirements in paragraphs (h)(2) and (3) of this section must be sent to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13. The Administrator or the delegated authority may request a report in any form suitable for the specific case (e.g., by commonly used electronic media such as Excel spreadsheet, on CD or hard copy). The Administrator retains the right to require submittal of reports subject to paragraphs (h)(2) and (3) of this section in paper format 



---

[N] [63 FR 18617, Apr. 15, 1998, as amended at 65 FR 80763, Dec. 22, 2000; 77 FR 55711, Sept. 11, 2012; 85 FR 73890, Nov. 19, 2020]




