# § 1.7874-10   Disregard of certain distributions.

(a) *Scope.* This section identifies distributions made by a domestic entity that are disregarded in determining an ownership fraction. Paragraph (b) of this section provides the general rule that former domestic entity shareholders or former domestic entity partners are treated as receiving additional stock of the foreign acquiring corporation when the domestic entity has made non-ordinary course distributions (NOCDs). Paragraph (c) of this section identifies distributions that, in whole or in part, are outside the scope of this section. Paragraph (d) of this section provides a de minimis exception to the application of the general rule in paragraph (b) of this section. Paragraph (e) of this section provides rules concerning the treatment of distributions made by a predecessor, and paragraph (f) of this section provides rules for identifying a predecessor. Paragraph (g) of this section provides a special rule for certain distributions described in section 355. Paragraph (h) of this section provides rules regarding the allocation of NOCD stock. Paragraph (i) of this section addresses cases in which there are multiple foreign acquiring corporations, and paragraph (j) of this section addresses cases in which multiple domestic entities are treated as a single domestic entity. Paragraph (k) of this section provides definitions. Paragraph (l) of this section provides dates of applicability. See § 1.7874-1(d)(2) for rules addressing the interaction of this section with the expanded affiliated group rules of section 7874(c)(2)(A) and § 1.7874-1.


(b) *General rule regarding NOCDs.* Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, for purposes of determining the ownership percentage by value (but not vote) described in section 7874(a)(2)(B)(ii), former domestic entity shareholders or former domestic entity partners, as applicable, are treated as receiving, by reason of holding stock or partnership interests in a domestic entity, stock of the foreign acquiring corporation with a fair market value equal to the amount of the non-ordinary course distributions (NOCDs), determined as of the date of the distributions, made by the domestic entity during the look-back period. The stock of the foreign acquiring corporation treated as received under this paragraph (b) (NOCD stock) is in addition to stock of the foreign acquiring corporation otherwise treated as received by the former domestic entity shareholders or former domestic entity partners by reason of holding stock or partnership interests in the domestic entity.


(c) *Distributions that are not NOCDs.* If only a portion of a distribution is an NOCD, section 7874(c)(4) may apply to the remainder of the distribution. This section does not, however, create a presumption that section 7874(c)(4) applies to the remainder of the distribution.


(d) *De minimis exception to the general rule.* Paragraph (b) of this section does not apply if—


(1) The ownership percentage described in section 7874(a)(2)(B)(ii), determined without regard to the application of paragraph (b) of this section and §§ 1.7874-4(b) and 1.7874-7(b), is less than five (by vote and value); and


(2) On the completion date, each five percent former domestic entity shareholder or five percent former domestic entity partner, as applicable, owns (applying the attribution rules of section 318(a) with the modifications described in section 304(c)(3)(B)) less than five percent (by vote and value) of the stock of (or a partnership interest in) each member of the expanded affiliated group. For this purpose, a five percent former domestic entity shareholder (or five percent former domestic entity partner) is a former domestic entity shareholder (or former domestic entity partner) that, before the domestic entity acquisition, owned (applying the attribution rules of section 318(a) with the modifications described in section 304(c)(3)(B)) at least five percent (by vote and value) of the stock of (or a partnership interest in) the domestic entity.


(e) *Treatment of distributions made by a predecessor.* For purposes of this section, a corporation or a partnership (relevant entity), including a domestic entity, is treated as making the following distributions made by a predecessor with respect to the relevant entity:


(1) A distribution made before the predecessor acquisition with respect to the predecessor; and


(2) A distribution made in connection with the predecessor acquisition to the extent the property distributed is directly or indirectly provided by the predecessor. See paragraph (k)(1)(iv) of this section.


(f) *Rules for identifying a predecessor*—(1) *Definition of predecessor.* A corporation or a partnership (tentative predecessor) is a predecessor with respect to a relevant entity if—


(i) The relevant entity completes a predecessor acquisition; and


(ii) After the predecessor acquisition and all related transactions are complete, the tentative predecessor ownership percentage is at least 10.


(2) *Definition of predecessor acquisition*—(i) *In general.* Predecessor acquisition means a transaction in which a relevant entity directly or indirectly acquires substantially all of the properties held directly or indirectly by a tentative predecessor.


(ii) *Acquisition of properties of a tentative predecessor.* For purposes of determining whether a predecessor acquisition occurs, the principles of section 7874(a)(2)(B)(i) apply, including § 1.7874-2(c) other than § 1.7874-2(c)(2) and (4) (regarding acquisitions of properties of a domestic entity), without regard to whether the tentative predecessor is domestic or foreign.


(iii) *Lower-tier entities of a predecessor.* If, before a predecessor acquisition and all related transactions, the predecessor held directly or indirectly stock in a corporation or an interest in a partnership, then, for purposes of this section, the relevant entity is not considered to directly or indirectly acquire the properties held directly or indirectly by the corporation or partnership.


(3) *Definition of tentative predecessor ownership percentage.* Tentative predecessor ownership percentage means, with respect to a predecessor acquisition, the percentage of stock or partnership interests (by value) in a relevant entity held by reason of holding stock or partnership interests in the tentative predecessor. For purposes of computing the tentative predecessor ownership percentage, the following rules apply:


(i) For purposes of determining the stock or partnership interests in a relevant entity held by reason of holding stock or partnership interests in the tentative predecessor, the principles of section 7874(a)(2)(B)(ii) and §§ 1.7874-2(f)(1)(i) through (iii) and 1.7874-5 apply.


(ii) For purposes of determining the stock or partnership interests in a relevant entity included in the numerator of the fraction used to compute the tentative predecessor ownership percentage, the rules of paragraph (f)(3)(i) of this section apply, and all the rules applicable to calculating the numerator of an ownership fraction with respect to a domestic entity acquisition apply, except that—


(A) The principles of section 7874(c)(2)(A) and §§ 1.7874-1 and 1.7874-6 do not apply; and


(B) The principles of paragraph (b) of this section do not apply.


(iii) For purposes of determining stock or partnership interests in a relevant entity included in the denominator of the fraction used to compute the tentative predecessor ownership percentage, the principles of section 7874(a)(2)(B)(ii) and all rules applicable to calculating the denominator of an ownership fraction with respect to a domestic entity acquisition apply, except that—


(A) The principles of section 7874(c)(2)(A) and §§ 1.7874-1 and 1.7874-6 do not apply; and


(B) The principles of §§ 1.7874-4 and 1.7874-7 through 1.7874-9 do not apply.


(g) *Rule regarding direction of a section 355 distribution.* For purposes of this section, if a domestic corporation (distributing corporation) distributes the stock of another domestic corporation (controlled corporation) pursuant to a transaction described in section 355, and, immediately before the distribution, the fair market value of the stock of the controlled corporation owned by the distributing corporation and any related person (determined under section 7874(d)(3), without regard to whether the person is foreign) represents more than 50 percent of the fair market value of the stock of the distributing corporation, then, the controlled corporation is deemed, on the date of the distribution, to have distributed the stock of the distributing corporation. The deemed distribution is equal to the fair market value of the stock of the distributing corporation (but not taking into account the fair market value of the stock of the controlled corporation) on the date of the distribution.


(h) *Allocation of NOCD stock.* NOCD stock is allocated among the former domestic entity shareholders or former domestic entity partners, as applicable, based on the amount of NOCDs that the former domestic entity shareholders or former domestic entity partners, as applicable, are treated as having received under this paragraph (h). Under this paragraph (h), a pro rata portion of each distribution during a look-back year is treated as comprising an NOCD with respect to the look-back year, based on a fraction the numerator of which is the amount of NOCDs during the look-back year and the denominator of which is the amount of distributions during the look-back year. Thus, each former domestic entity shareholder or former domestic entity partner, as applicable, is treated as receiving an amount of NOCD stock equal to the amount of NOCDs treated as received by the former domestic entity shareholder or former domestic entity partner, as applicable.


(i) *Multiple foreign acquiring corporations.* If there are multiple foreign acquiring corporations with respect to a domestic entity acquisition, then the foreign acquiring corporation or corporations as to which NOCD stock is considered comprised is based on the proportion of consideration directly or indirectly provided by a foreign acquiring corporation in the domestic entity acquisition relative to the total amount of consideration directly or indirectly provided by the foreign acquiring corporations in the domestic entity acquisition. For purposes of this paragraph (i), consideration is not considered directly provided by a foreign acquiring corporation if it was indirectly provided by another foreign acquiring corporation. In addition, for purposes of this paragraph (i), consideration provided in the domestic entity acquisition does not include money or other property described in paragraph (k)(1)(iii) of this section.


(j) *Multiple domestic entities.* If pursuant to § 1.7874-2(e) two or more domestic entities are treated as a single domestic entity, then the determination of the amount of NOCDs made by the single domestic entity is made by—


(1) Applying the rules of this section to each domestic entity on a separate basis, with the result that the amount of NOCDs made by each domestic entity is separately computed; and


(2) Treating the amount of NOCDs made by the single domestic entity as the sum of the separately computed NOCDs made by each domestic entity.


(k) *Definitions.* In addition to the definitions provided in § 1.7874-12, the following definitions apply for purposes of this section.


(1) A *distribution* means the following:


(i) Any distribution made by a corporation with respect to its stock other than—


(A) A distribution to which section 305 applies;


(B) A distribution to which section 304(a)(1) applies; and


(C) Except as provided in paragraphs (k)(1)(iii) and (iv) of this section, a distribution pursuant to section 361(c)(1) (other than a distribution to which section 355 applies).


(ii) Any distribution by a partnership (other than a distribution pursuant to section 752(b) to the extent that the transaction giving rise to such distribution does not reduce the partnership's value).


(iii) In the case of a domestic entity, a transfer of money or other property to the former domestic entity shareholders or former domestic entity partners that is made in connection with the domestic entity acquisition to the extent the money or other property is directly or indirectly provided by the domestic entity.


(iv) In the case of a predecessor, a transfer of money or other property to the former owners of the predecessor that is made in connection with the predecessor acquisition to the extent the money or other property is directly or indirectly provided by the predecessor.


(2) *Distribution history period*—(i) *In general.* Except as provided in paragraph (k)(2)(ii) or (iii) of this section, a distribution history period means, with respect to a look-back year, the 36-month period preceding the start of the look-back year.


(ii) *Formation date less than 36 months but at least 12 months before look-back year.* If the formation date is less than 36 months, but at least 12 months, before the start of a look-back year, then the distribution history period with respect to that look-back year means the entire period, starting with the formation date, that precedes the start of the look-back year.


(iii) *Formation date less than 12 months before look-back year.* If the formation date is less than 12 months before the start of a look-back year, then there is no distribution history period with respect to that look-back year.


(3) *Formation date* means, with respect to a domestic entity, the date that the domestic entity was created or organized, or, if earlier, the earliest date that any predecessor of the domestic entity was created or organized.


(4) *Look-back period* means, with respect to a domestic acquisition, the 36-month period ending on the completion date or, if shorter, the entire period, starting with the formation date, that ends on the completion date.


(5) *Look-back year* means, with respect to a look-back period, the following:


(i) If the look-back period is 36 months, the three consecutive 12-month periods that comprise the look-back period.


(ii) If the look-back period is less than 36 months, but at least 24 months—


(A) The 12-month period that ends on the completion date;


(B) The 12-month period that immediately precedes the period described in paragraph (k)(5)(ii)(A) of this section; and


(C) The period, if any, that immediately precedes the period described in paragraph (k)(5)(ii)(B) of this section.


(iii) If the look-back period is less than 24 months, but at least 12 months—


(A) The 12-month period that ends on the completion date; and


(B) The period, if any, that immediately precedes the period described in paragraph (k)(5)(iii)(A) of this section.


(iv) If the look-back period is less than 12 months, the entire period, starting with the formation date, that ends on the completion date.


(6) *NOCDs* mean, with respect to a look-back year, the excess of all distributions made during the look-back year over the NOCD threshold for the look-back year.


(7) *NOCD threshold* means, with respect to a look-back year, the following:


(i) If the look-back year has at least a 12-month distribution history period, 110 percent of the sum of all distributions made during the distribution history period multiplied by a fraction. The numerator of the fraction is the number of days in the look-back year and the denominator is the number of days in the distribution history period with respect to the look-back year.


(ii) If the look-back year has no distribution history period, zero.


(l) *Applicability date.* This section applies to domestic entity acquisitions completed on or after July 12, 2018. For domestic entity acquisitions completed before July 12, 2018, see § 1.7874-10T, as contained in 26 CFR part 1 revised as of April 1, 2017. However, to the extent this section differs from § 1.7874-10T, as contained in 26 CFR part 1 revised as of April 1, 2017, taxpayers may elect to consistently apply the differences to domestic entity acquisitions completed before July 12, 2018.



---

[N] [T.D. 9834, 83 FR 32557, July 12, 2018]




