# ยง 300.153   Permit issuance.

(a) *Acceptance.* Once the Department of State has accepted the conditions and restrictions proposed by the Russian Federation and all fees have been paid, the competent authorities of the Russian Federation will approve the application. The Russian Federation will issue a permit to the vessel owner for each fishing vessel for which it has approved an application. That vessel will thereupon be authorized by the Russian Federation to fish in accordance with the Agreement and the terms and conditions set forth in the permit. The vessel owner is prohibited from transferring the permit to any other vessel or person. Any such transfer, or the sale or other transfer of the vessel, will immediately invalidate the permit. The vessel owner must notify NMFS of any change in the permit application information submitted to NMFS Headquarters under ยง 300.152 within 7 calendar days of the change. 


(b) *Copies.* The vessel owner and operator must mail a copy of each permit and any conditions and restrictions issued for that vessel by the Russian Federation within 7 calendar days of its receipt to NMFS Headquarters. 


(c) *Validity.* Any permit issued by the Russian Federation with respect to a vessel subject to this subpart will be deemed to be a valid permit only if: 


(1) A completed permit application has been forwarded to the competent authorities of the Russian Federation as provided in ยง 300.152(b)(1). 


(2) Such application has been approved and a permit issued by the competent authorities of the Russian Federation as provided in paragraph (a) of this section. 


(3) The U.S. Department of State has notified the competent authorities of the Russian Federation that it has accepted the conditions and restrictions as provided in paragraph (a) of this section. The permit will be rendered invalid by: The transfer or sale of the permit specified in paragraph (a) of this section; the failure to submit to NMFS any changes in permit application information as required by paragraph (a) of this section; failure to submit to NMFS any permit copy required by paragraph (b) of this section or any other information or report required by any other provision of this subpart; or the failure to pay required permit fees. 


(d) *Russian-imposed sanctions.* (1) The Russian Federation will impose appropriate fines, penalties, or forfeitures in accordance with its laws, for violations of its relevant laws or regulations. 


(2) In the case of arrest and seizure of a U.S. vessel by Russian authorities, notification will be given promptly through diplomatic channels informing the United States of the facts and actions taken. 


(3) The Russian Federation will release U.S. vessels and their crews promptly, subject to the posting of reasonable bond or other security. 


(4) The sanctions for violations of limitations or restrictions on fishing operations will be appropriate fines, penalties, forfeitures, or revocations or suspensions of fishing privileges. 




