# § 721.10813   Benzenesulfonic acid, dimethyl-, alkyl derivatives, sodium salt (generic).

(a) *Chemical substance and significant new uses subject to reporting.* (1) The chemical substance identified generically as benzenesulfonic acid, dimethyl-, alkyl derivatives, sodium salt (PMNs P-12-116 and P-13-568) is subject to reporting under this section for the significant new uses described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The requirements of this section do not apply to quantities of the PMN substance that have partitioned into oil or petroleum streams when used in enhanced oil recovery applications.


(2) The significant new uses are:


(i) *Hazard communication program.* Requirements as specified in § 721.72(a) through (f), (g)(1) (corrosion to the eyes, mucous membranes, skin, and lungs), (g)(2)(i), (g)(2)(ii), (g)(2)(iii), (g)(2)(v), (g)(3), (g)(4)(ii), and (g)(5).


(ii) *Industrial, commercial, and consumer activities.* Requirements as specified in § 721.80(k) (manufacturing, processing, or use of the PMN substance other than as an interfacial tension reducer for enhanced oil recovery or the confidential use as stated in the consent order for P-13-568) and § 721.80(q) (production volume limit as stated in the consent order for P-13-568).


(iii) *Release to water.* Requirements as specified in § 721.90 (a)(4), (b)(4), and (c)(4) (where N = 4).


(b) *Specific requirements.* The provisions of subpart A of this part apply to this section except as modified by this paragraph.


(1) *Recordkeeping.* Recordkeeping requirements as specified in § 721.125(a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), (i), and (k) are applicable to manufacturers and processors of this substance.


(2) *Limitations or revocation of certain notification requirements.* The provisions of § 721.185 apply to this section.


(3) *Determining whether a specific use is subject to this section.* The provisions of § 721.1725(b)(1) apply to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.



---

[N] [80 FR 26457, May 8, 2015]




